of expanding as they go and and this is
the point that that what we're going to
be doing is we're going to be dealing in
increments as much as possible
uh putting together building blocks um
to give people the entire story so that
people have the access
uh to the information it's raw form for
instance tonight we're going to be uh
relying heavily
on an excellent book called the politics
of heroin in southeast asia
that book is by alfred w mccoy and it is
currently i believe
out of print it is available still in
some places and you can usually find it
in libraries but
instead of just popping through it and
hitting a couple of uh
a couple of paragraphs out of the entire
book we're going to be going into it
extensively because it was really the
groundbreaking work
in this field of talking about the the
relationship of drugs to
up to power politics and uh as a result
what we're going to be doing tonight is
really largely
concentrating almost entirely on the the
shift over
of the the asian heroin trade into the
hands
of western intelligence we're not going
to have any time tonight to talk about
cocaine which is a huge factor
and cocaine in politics is a is a
gigantic issue
that we're not even going to be able to
tackle this time which is why as dave
mentioned this is a three and possibly
four part series
we'll be going around the horn i guess
you could say we're going to be talking
at great length in fact an entire
broadcast will be one entire radio free
america show will be devoted
to the influence of the cia and military
in promoting lsd
you really literally cannot separate out
the military in the cia
from lsd despite that oh i guess that
the counter culture
overtones that that drug acquired in the
60s and 70s the fact the matter is
everywhere you look with lsd and its
development or use one finds the
military in the intelligence services
so we'll be we'll be dealing with the i
i don't know if you could say the entire
uh
cornucopia of pharmacology but we're
going to be we're going to be
covering a lot of the so-called
recreational drugs that are
uh in use in this society and we'll show
you where the uh the use and abuse
originally comes from
indeed and again the point being that
tonight we're going to be concentrating
on a very specific
step-by-step path of the um the growth
of the heroin trade and the
the the changeover of the heroin trade
from something that was initially purely
an uh
an underworld movement a criminal
movement solely for the purpose of of uh
money making and how it became a
political tool
um again heroin is only one of the drugs
we're going to talk about as dave
mentioned we've got lsd coming up we're
going to talk about the cocaine trade
we're going to talk about a variety
of other things in the upcoming shows so
if you're just tuning in for the first
time
if it seems a little slow going to you
as dave mentioned at the top of the
broadcast
we realize that that's the reason that
this show is formatted
differently from the broadcast that we
do on sunday which tend to be much more
fast moving which tend to touch on a
variety of topics
these are archive broadcasts they are
meant to contain as much information as
we can as we can squeeze into four hours
without without without killing
ourselves basically
and still being able to make sense which
is important also and
and we tend to go very deeply into the
source material we use as again tonight
with the politics of heroin in southeast
asia and a very important book that
probably most people out there have
never read
and at least this will give them a good
healthy sampling of the work contained
in it
beyond that the the fact that matter is
that if
the issues that we talk about on one
step beyond that mae brussel talks about
in our world watchers program also heard
on this station
if these issues are going to be dealt
with effectively by our society by the
people in our society
obviously people are going to have to
know about them and yet people are up
against uh the the limitation of all
their
of the fact that they're only 168 hours
in a week people have to work they have
to go to school they have family
commitments and so forth
that's really what our archive shows are
aimed at doing is to give you an
in-depth complete understanding or as
complete as one can get
and it also give you hard references in
other words we're not sitting here
asking you to accept our word for things
we're giving you the relevant source
material and exerting as much of it as
we reasonably can on the tape
so that basically you can acquire a
degree of expertise and yet you won't
have to rearrange
your lifestyle fundamentally in order to
do it but again these are very very
important topics that we cover
this is not only one of the most
important topics but it's extremely
timely
for those who eventually hear these
programs later this program is being
recorded in mid-october of 1986
amidst a a rising uh
wave of anti-drug hysteria in this
country now needless to say neither nip
nor myself
advocates the use of illegal drugs
that's a decision people should make
on their own and i think make it very
carefully and the dominant consideration
should be their own health
however the fact of the matter is that a
lot of these drugs and friend
as damaging as they are come from
elements of our government that our
government is inextricably linked
with the very plague that it is now
ostensibly leading the charge
against and is that it's extremely
timely
and again as nip indicated the politics
of heroin in southeast asia
is not readily available it's one of the
one of the
dominant uh reference works in this
field and it's not easy to get a hold of
we're going to be exerting long
segregated segments of it tonight many
of the key segments
so again feast your eyes and brains and
uh
and go for it now as many of our
listeners uh who have
been following these broadcasts before
are aware um
the the drug situation and the the
stance of our government
vis-a-vis drugs is very similar to our
the stance of our government
uh visa the terrorism insofar as if
we're going to make a a psychiatric
comparison we would call it transference
transference is when one sees in other
people
the very illnesses that one has oneself
a classic case is what's been going on
lately
um with nicaragua where nicaragua has
been accused by the reagan
administration of being
the chief supplier of cocaine in the
western hemisphere working with cuba
and the soviet union to flood our
country with uh with killer cocaine and
destroy the moral foundation of our
youth etc etc
well in fact as those who follow the
newspapers and especially those who
follow
these broadcasts no in fact the
overwhelming weight of evidence is on
the side
uh showing that the folks in fact who
are dealing cocaine
in the nicaraguan conflict are the
contras which again is not surprising
because as we will see tonight
the right wing mercenary slash
intelligence milieu has been making use
of illegal drugs
as a source for ready capital for a long
time especially when connected with
the uh the illegal arms traffic and
again what we see in
in this case is we see the reagan
administration reagan administration
hysterically denouncing communist drug
traffickers
while it and and decrying the the rod of
the moral fabric of our country due to
drug use while at the same time it's our
very own intelligence establishment as
we will
begin to show tonight that has been for
the last 40 years
dealing very extensively in illegal
drugs themselves
and in fact that they have been doing
this far more than as far as we can tell
any of the communist countries
or otherwise anathematic countries
that are constantly cited by our
government as examples of governments
gone bad or terrorist or drug dealing
governments
so again we're going to see tonight
where this springs directly
out of a very very old program that
started in asia at the time of the
chinese revolution
um actually before the chinese
revolution during world war ii um
and has carried on right to this day
this program of using
drugs and this is the main thing here
tonight using drugs not necessarily
because of any moral commitment to
to drugs or because of anything about
drugs other than the fact
that they move quickly they reap a great
deal of profit for a small amount of
actual material moved
that the circles that tend to deal in
drugs are already dealing in a lot of
other things like arms
and things of that nature and in many
cases also in political insurrection
and the fact that they are a very very
good under the table source of capital
for operations that people like the cia
cannot have bankrolled in the public eye
it's also worth noting too a couple of
points
by introducing uh illegal drugs into a
given
environment you are creating a
conspiratorial milia in and of itself
because they are illegal
that often serves as an ideal vehicle
for compromising people and subsequently
using those people
for uh whatever purposes an intelligence
service would like to
beyond that it should be noted also in
addition to the situation in nicaragua
the afghan freedom fighters who are
receiving the largest support of any
uh group from our intelligence system at
the moment is also very much involved in
the narcotics traffic they have been
linked both to large-scale hashish and
opium trafficking
and the profits from these are going to
finance
their war as we're going to see this
evening and in uh future
radio free america shows on the subject
that is a very very common almost
numbingly uh familiar pattern because
then we're and
we're going to be looking at that at
great length this evening in southeast
asia both
before and during the american
involvement in the vietnam war and
undoubtedly an upcoming broadcast we
will be mentioning as dave said it's a
numbingly familiar pattern
it's not only with many many
southeastern southeast asian governments
such as the uh the laotian and the
vietnamese and uh
in the chinese uh well the taiwanese
governments and people of this sort
we've also seen it time and time again
in the middle east
with the phalanges that we have been
supporting in the middle east the
phalanges government there the
right-wing government of turkey
um in italy in certain certain political
groups that we've supported in france
and spain
and all over south and central america
uh in short it's virtually a worldwide
phenomenon
and in in nine out of ten cases it seems
there has been direct intervention
uh by our intelligence service at some
point along the route so
stick with us folks it's going to be a
rather a chilling ride and there's going
to be a lot of ups and even more downs
but it's something that if you are
concerned about drugs and this can mean
as a parent
as a as a person themselves who has
taken or been exposed to drugs
um or just as a concerned citizen who's
been hearing all the talk on the on the
news
um if you're concerned about drugs you
owe it to yourself to
to pull your head out of the sand and to
find out what's really going on
with the politics of drugs and
international intelligence now
before we actually get into the history
of or the historical background to our
intelligence services involvement with
narcotics traffic
we're gonna just by way of introduction
uh discuss
ever so briefly a little bit about the
history of heroin which is the first of
the drugs we're going to be considering
now it should be noted that uh it's
intriguing that heroin should have
become such a scourge in our society
because initially
heroin heroin was not only a legal drug
but
it specifically was hailed as a miracle
drug it was hail as a cough suppressant
it was hailed ironically enough
as a cure for morphine addiction believe
it or not in its inception
and it uh the actual drug heroin itself
was it was widely regarded it was
initially developed by the bayer company
one of the member companies of ig
farben which we're going to talk about
but when it was hey when it first came
out and uh
it i believe was first developed in 1898
it was
literally the subject of a worldwide
media advertising blitz
by the bayer company and doctors were
prescribing it right and left for all
kinds of ailments
by the early twenties it had become
apparent that this had created a
monstrous addiction problem in the
united states and elsewhere
so the drug became illegal at that point
but it should be noted
that america's drug ad americans heroin
addicts initially became addicted to
that drug because it was not only legal
but widely prescribed by the medical
community that's uh
something to think about as you observe
a lot of uh people today becoming
addicted to prescription drugs perhaps
they've had surgery or been injured and
a doctor will prescribe a painkiller and
that painkiller can prove addictive
this again is a numbingly familiar
pattern heroin heroin initially and this
is this is a significant point
was not only legal but was hailed as a
miracle drug and widely prescribed and
this is where
the addiction problem for the heroin
addiction problem first comes from
it should be noted that the problem of
heroin addiction was added to morphine
addiction
and compounded the problem of morphine
addiction and it's worth noting for our
purposes
that morphine addiction uh has stemmed
largely in this country
from wars specifically casualties were
treated with morphine in order to dull
their pain
many of the men in this the first
large-scale morphine addiction in this
country followed the civil war
and it's it's worth noting that after
our major foreign wars
there has always been an upsurge in uh
drug addiction in this country due to
people who are treated with morphine and
or other drugs and become addicted to it
there was a large swelling
of the addict population in the united
states immediately after world war one
due to the effects of morphine and then
shortly after world war one
uh the medical community in this country
took stock of the fact that heroin was
creating a huge addiction problem and
then finally
after being hailed as a miracle drug and
widely prescribed it became illegal
and uh nip's going to give you a couple
of interesting details about heroin's
origin
and about the origin of a drug which is
used now to treat
heroin addiction and as you listen to
what he's reading remember that
initially
heroin was prescribed for among other
things a cure it was prescribed as a
cure
for morphine addiction this short
segment i'm going to read is from
a book called the crime and punishment
of ig ig farben
uh the book is by joseph borkin
b-o-r-k-i-n copyright 1978 by the free
press which is a villain of a division
of macmillan a
villain of mcmission a division of
macmillan publishing company
i'm an excellent book by the way and
well worth your time it gives a very
good insight into something that
people who are students of history and
politics and warfare often do not spend
enough time with
which is the economic and industrial
basis of war which is uh
inextricable from the the fabric of
warfare itself
uh just before it reads the ig farben
for people who are tuned into us for
perhaps for the first time or one of the
first times
ig farben or the interesting command
shaft farben industry as its full name
is
is something it's one of the dominant
industrial concerns in the world
and it's something one should really
it's sort of a must to know about if you
want to understand the history of
uh industry in in the modern world uh it
basically was a
was a giant chemical cartel a number of
companies that
uh had comprised like the uh heart of
the german dye stuff industry combined
after world war one into one
giant cartel or interesting command
shaft
which roughly translates community of
interest this uh
giant chemical cartel the ig farben
industry composed
of a number of different companies
including the bayer company which nip is
going to read you about
uh remained the as a cartel through the
end of world war
ii and during the world war ii and
pre-world war ii period
the ig farben pres provided the backbone
of hitler's war production it was the
single dominant industrial concern in
nazi germany and as one
observer of the situation noted he said
that hitler was farben and farben
was hitler after the war the company was
the cartel was broken up into its member
companies but those member companies
remain just as influential
on the scene as they were when they were
uh one giant company it's sort of
similar to the way standard oil
where these old standard oil trust was
busted up into
mobile exxon chevron and other companies
but it's still they're still all owned
by the rockefellers so in a sense the
trust busting under roosevelt was sort
of academic but the ig farben a giant
chemical cartel
the single most important concern behind
the third reich also it should be
mentioned that at the end of world war
ii
uh several members of the ig farben
board of directors were the first
civilians ever found guilty of war
crimes which should give you an idea of
how
very closely the community of interest
was shared between ig
farben and hitler's nazi uh political
machine
and listeners listening to these tapes
in the future if they would like
to refer two things dealing with ig
farming at davcore we have a number of
different tapes
first of all uncle sam and the swastika
deals extensively with ig
farben our first two radio free america
shows looking back from
1984 the hidden history of the cold war
parts one and two
deal with ig farben at considerable
length throughout the broadcasts
and also a program called the third
reich south africa and the bomb
deals with the role of the of ig farben
in one in nazi germany's industrial
production and also in the
uh nutri the nuclear production of
post-war germany the federal republic of
germany so people like to read up more
on ig there are some good references
now after all that build up it's a very
short segment but it's a very
interesting segment nonetheless
remember bayer was part of this this
interlocking concern chemical concern ig
farben
bayer's pharmaceutical venture was even
larger out of its laboratories emerged
aspirin
the world's most famous home remedy for
pain and fever
bayer was also responsible for the
introduction of heroin
which it sold as a cure for morphine
addiction and as a cough suppressant
especially effective in children later
the bayer laboratories developed
methadone in preparation for world war
ii as a synthetic substitute for
morphine
it was originally named dolphin
in honor of adolf hitler today methadone
is used principally in the treatment of
heroin addiction
and of course methadone itself is highly
addictive but
actually it's used for one reason
because it's safer and it's it's cheaper
to manufacture
than heroin is but it's interesting
again that uh heroin addiction initially
of course heroin prescribed as a cure
for morphine addiction
is now being cured by methadone which
was initially a synthetic narcotic
produced by ig farben in case the flow
of opium from the east was cut off by
the british blockade during world war ii
and of course originally named in honor
of adolf hitler
well now we're going to begin dealing
with the
actual influence of the us intelligence
system on the narcotics traffic and its
actual involvement in that narcotics
traffic
perhaps the most significant piece of
background uh
of historical background to understand
the involvement of our intelligence
services and narcotics trafficking is to
understand
three wartime alliances made by the us
intelligence system
and or world war two and immediate post
world war ii alliances
specifically these alliances were with
criminal syndicates which had
considerable links to the narcotics
trafficking the first link we're going
to look at
is an alliance between u.s naval
intelligence and the onorata societa or
mafia as it's commonly known the
sicilian mafia
following that we're going to take a
look at the involvement of the cia
with the union course the corsican
syndicate in france immediately after
world war ii
and later on in the broadcast we're
going to take a look at the involvement
of u.s naval intelligence and the oss
america's wartime world war ii
intelligence service
with a fellow named ty lee he was a
an imperial not imperial japanese he was
a actually an imperial chinese if you
want to look at it that way he was a
komen tang warlord
and the chief intelligence chief and uh
political enforcer i guess you could say
for chiang kai-shek prior to his
overthrow by the chinese communists in
1949.
tai li was also very much involved with
narcotics trafficking through the the
green gang
in shanghai as we're going to look at he
formed a very very interesting alliance
with naval intelligence
these three alliances between the us
intelligence system
and criminal syndicates during and
immediately after world war two
are inextricably are essential for
understanding the involvement of the u s
intelligence system with narcotics
trafficking
again the first of these alliances we're
going to be looking at is the us navy's
wartime alliance with the mafia
reading now from the politics of heroin
in southeast asia by alfred w
mccoy the book was copyrighted in 1972
published in hardcover by harper and roe
once again alfred mccoy is the politics
of heroin in southeast asia
also assisted by catholic kathleen b
reed and leonard
p adams now it's worth noting that at
the
point in the story which we're going to
be uh picking up well actually
we're going to look at uh the first
thing i'm going to read here is a little
bit of the overview
for the u.s intelligence systems
involvement within our cut
with the organized crime and its
involvement subsequent involvement with
the narcotics trafficking then we're
going to get into the whole question
of the the cia and oss involvement with
the mafia in great detail in just a
second
it's worth noting though that during
world war ii the heroin
the number of heroin addicts in this
country dropped enormously because
basically world war
ii seriously disrupted the international
narcotics traffic
a combination of the fact that the sea
lanes were much more perilous due
obviously to the submarine warfare and
so forth
the fact that as a result merchant
shipping bottoms were not as easy to
come by
the increased security countries had
around their borders a lot of different
factors
combined to make to to make it extremely
difficult to traffic in heroin
internationally also
uh the progress of the warfare itself
also disrupted the international heroin
trade considerably as
different different uh groups involved
in the narcotics trade were forced to uh
migrate or to move very suddenly due to
the progress of the warfare
but it's worth noting that dirt that
during world war ii heroin the
heroin supply their world heroin
distribution network was almost
decimated and the number of heroin
addicts in the united states reduced to
almost
nothing because had the situation turned
out differently had the u.s intelligence
system not
involved itself with these criminal
syndicates it's quite possible that the
world heroine problem could have been
eliminated at the end of world war ii
reading once again now or go returning
to i should say the politics of heroin
in southeast asia by alfred mccoy
while law enforcement efforts failed to
stem the flow of illicit heroin into the
united states during the 1930s
the outbreak of world war ii seriously
disrupted international drug traffic
wartime border security measures and a
shortage of ordinary commercial shipping
made it nearly impossible for
traffickers to smuggle heroin into the
united states
distributors augmented dwindling
supplies by cutting adulterating heroin
with increasingly greater proportions of
sugar or quinine
while most packets of heroin sold in the
united states were 28
pure in 1938 only three years later they
were less than three percent pure
as a result of all this many american
addicts were forced to undergo
involuntary withdrawal from their habits
and by the end of world war ii
the american addict population had
dropped to less than twenty thousand
in fact as the war drew to a close there
was every reason to believe that the
scourge of heroin had finally been
purged from the united states
heroin supplies were non-existent
international criminal syndicates were
in disarray
and the addict population was reduced to
manageable proportions for the first
time in half a century
but the disappearance of heroin
addiction from the american scene
was not to be within several years
in large part thanks in large part
thanks to the nature of u s foreign
policy after world war two
the drug syndicates were back in
business the poppy fields in southeast
asia started to expand
and heroin refineries multiplied both in
marseille
and hong kong how did we come to inflict
this heroin plague on ourselves
the answer lies in the history of
america's cold war crusade
world war ii shattered the world order
much of the globe had known for almost a
century
advancing and retreating armies surged
across the face of three continents
leaving in their wake a legacy of
crumbling empires devastated national
economies and shattered social orders
in europe the defeat of fascist regimes
in germany italy
france and eastern europe released
workers from years of police state
repression
a wave of grassroots militants swept
through european labor movements and
trade unions launched a series of
spectacular strikes to achieve their
economic and political goals
bled white by six years of costly
warfare both the victor and
vanquished nations of europe lacked the
means and the will to hold on to their
asian colonial empires
within a few years after the end of
world war ii vigorous national
liberation movements swept through asia
from
india to indonesia as indigenous groups
rose up against their colonial masters
america's nation cold war crusaders
viewed these events with undisguised
horror
conservative republican and democratic
leaders alike felt that the united
states should be rewarded for its
wartime sacrifices
these men wanted to inherit the world as
it had been and had little interest
in seeing it changed henry luce founder
of the time life empire
argued that america was the rightful
heir to great britain's international
primacy
and heralded the post-war era as quote
the american century
unquote to justify their entanglement in
foreign adventures america's cold
warriors embraced a militantly
anti-communist ideology
in their minds the entire world was
locked in a manichaean struggle between
godless communism
and the free world unquote the soviet
union was determined to conquer the
world and its leader joseph stalin was
the new hitler
european labor movements and asian
nationalist struggles were pawns of
international communism unquote and as
such had to be subverted or destroyed
there could be no compromise with this
monolithic evil negotiations were
appeasement unquote and neutralism was
immoral unquote in this desperate
struggle to save western civilization
unquote any ally was more welcome and
any means was justified
the military dictatorship on taiwan
became
free china unquote the police state in
south vietnam was
a free vietnam unquote a collection of
military dictatorships stretching from
pakistan to argentina was
the free world unquote the cia became
the vanguard of america's anti-communist
crusade
and it dispatched small numbers of
well-financed agents to every corner of
the globe to mold local political
situations in a fashion compatible with
american interests
practicing a ruthless form of
clandestine real politique
its agents made alliances with any local
group willing and able to stem the flow
of
communist aggression unquote although
these alliances represent only a small
fraction of cia post-war operations
they have nevertheless had a profound
impact on the international heroin trade
the cold war was waged and was waged in
many parts of the world but europe was
the most important battleground in the
1940s and 50s
determined to restrict soviet influence
in western europe
american clandestine operatives
intervened in the internal politics of
germany
italy and france in sicily the
forerunner of the cia the office of
strategic services
formed an alliance with a sicilian mafia
to limit the political gains of the
italian communist party on this
impoverished
island in france the mediterranean port
city of marseille became a major
battleground between the cia and the
french communist party during the late
1940s
to tip the balance of power in its favor
the cia recruited corsican gangsters to
battle communist strikers
and back leading figures in the city's
corsican underworld who were at odds
with the local communists
ironically both the sicilian mafia and
the corsican underworld played a key
role in the grope
growth of europe's post-war heroin
traffic and were to provide
most of the heroin smuggled into the
united states for the next two decades
that's my way of introduction and now as
indicated nip's going to begin reading
you
specifically about the oss naval
intelligence mafia alliance during and
after world war ii
all right this is also from albert
alfred mccoy's politics of heroin in
southeast asia
this is headed the mafia restored
fighters for democracy in world war
ii world war ii gave the mafia a new
lease on life
in the united states the office of naval
intelligence
oni became increasingly concerned over a
series of sabotages and incidents on the
new york waterfront
which culminated with the burning of the
french liner normandy
on the eve of its christening as an
allied troop ship
powerless to infiltrate the waterfront
itself the oni very practically decided
to fight fire with fire
and contacted joseph lanza mafia boss of
the east side docks
who agreed to organize effective
anti-sabotage surveillance throughout
his waterfront territory
when only i decided to expand operation
underworld
to the west side docks in 1943 they
discovered they would have to deal with
a man who controlled them
lucky luciano unhappily languishing in
the harsh dannemora prison
after he promised full cooperation to
naval intelligence officers
luciano was rewarded by being
transferred to a less austere state
penitentiary near albany
where he was regularly visited by
military officers and underworld leaders
such as meyer lansky
who had emerged as luciano's chief
assistant
while o and i enabled luciano to resume
active leadership of american organized
crime
the allied invasion of italy returned
the sicilian mafia to power
on the night of july 9th 1943 160
000 allied troops landed on the extreme
southwestern shore of sicily
after securing a beachhead general
george patton's u.s seventh army
launched an offensive into the island's
western hills italy's
mafia land and headed for the city of
palermo
although there were over sixty thousand
italian troops and a hundred miles of
booby-trapped roads between patton and
palermo
his troops covered the distance in a
remarkable four days
the defense department has never offered
any explanation for the remarkable lack
of resistance in patton's race through
western sicily
and pointedly refused to provide any
information to senator estes kiefer's
organized crime subcommittee
in 1951 however italian experts on the
sicilian mafia have never been so
reticent
five days after the allies landed in
sicily an american fighter plane flew
over the village of vilalba
about 45 45 miles north of general
patton's beachhead on the road to
palermo
and jettisoned a canvas sack addressed
to zou
kalo zukalo better known as don
calaguero vicini
was the unchallenged leader of the
sicilian mafia and lord of the mountain
region through which the american army
would be passing
the sack contained a yellow silk scarf
emblazoned with a large black
l the l of course stood for lucky
luciano
and silk scarves were a common form of
identification used by mafiosi traveling
from sicily to america
it was hardly surprising that lucky
luciano should be communicating with don
calaguero under such circumstances
luciano had been born less than 15 miles
from villalba
in le carrafridi where his mafiosi
relatives still worked for don calaguero
two days later three american tanks
rolled into villalba after driving 30
miles through enemy territory
don calaguero climbed aboard and spent
the next six days traveling through
western sicily
organizing support for the advancing
american troops
as general patton's third division moved
onward into don caligaro's mountain
domain
the signs of its dependence on mafia
support were obvious to the local
population
the mafia protected the roads from
snipers arranged enthusiastic welcomes
for the advancing troops and provided
guides through the confusing mountain
terrain
while the role of the mafia is little
more than a historical footnote to the
allied conquest of sicily
its cooperation with the american
military occupation
otherwise known as amgot was extremely
important
although there is room for speculation
about luciano's precise role in the
invasion
there can be little doubt about the
relationship between the mafia
and the american military occupation
this alliance developed when in the
summer of 1943 the allied occupation's
primary concern
was to release as many of their troops
as possible from garrison duties on the
island
so they could be used in the offensive
throughout southern italy
practicality was the order of the day
and in october the pentagon advised
occupation officers quote
that the carabinieri an italian army
will be found satisfactory for local
security purposes
unquote but the fascist army had long
since deserted
and don calaguero's mafia seemed far
more reliable at guaranteeing public
order
than mussolini's powerless carabineri so
in july the civil affairs control office
of the u.s army appointed don calaguero
mayor of villalba in addition amgot
appointed loyal mafiosi as mayors in
many of the towns and villages in
western sicily
as allied forces crawled north through
the italian mainland
american intelligence officers became
increasingly upset about the leftward
drift of italian politics
between late 1943 and mid 1944
the italian communist party's membership
had doubled and in the german occupied
northern half of the country an
extremely radical resistance movement
was gathering strength
in the winter of 1944 over 500 000
touring workers
shut the factories for eight days
despite brutal gestapo repression
and the italian underground grew to
almost one hundred and fifty thousand
armed men
rather than being heartened by the
underground's growing strength the us
army became increasingly concerned about
its radical politics
and began to cut back its arms drops to
the resistance
in mid-1944 quote
more than 20 years ago allied military
commanders reported in 1944
a similar situation provoked the march
on rome and gave birth to fascism
we must make up our minds and that
quickly whether we want this second
march developing into another ism
unquote in sicily the decision had
already been made
to combat expected communist gains
occupation authorities used mafia
officials in the amgot administration
since any changes in the island's feudal
social structure would cost the mafia
money in power
the quote honored society was a natural
anti-communist ally
so confident was don calaguero of his
importance to amgot
that he killed vilalba's overly
inquisitive police chief to free himself
of all
restraints in naples one of luciano's
lieutenants vito genovese
was appointed to a position of
interpreter liaison officer and american
army headquarters
and quickly became one of amgot's most
trusted employees
it was a remarkable turnabout less than
a year before genovese had arranged the
murder of carlo fresca editor of an
anti-fascist italian language newspaper
in new york
to please the mussolini government
genovese and don caliguiro were old
friends and they used their official
positions to establish one of the
largest black market operations in all
of southern italy
don calaguero said enormous truck
caravans loaded with all the basic food
commodities
necessary for the italian diet rolling
northward to hungry naples where their
cargos were distributed by genovese's
organization
all the trucks were issued passes and
export papers by the amgod
administration in naples
in sicily and some corrupt american army
officers even made contributions of
gasoline and trucks
to the operation in exchange for these
favors
don calaguero became one of the major
supporters of the civil sicilian
independence movement
which was enjoying the covert support of
the oss
as italy veered to the left in 43 of 44
the american military became alarmed
about their future position in the
mediterranean
in italy and felt that the island's
naval bases and strategic location in
the mediterranean
might provide a possible future
counterbalance to a communist mainland
don calaguero supported this separatist
movement by recruiting most of
western sicily's mountain bandits for
its volunteer army
but quietly abandoned it shortly after
the oss dropped it in 1945.
don calaguero rendered other services to
the anti-communist effort by breaking up
leftist political rallies
on september 16th 1944 for example the
communist leader
girolama likauzi held a rally in
villalba that ended
abruptly in a hail of gunfire as don
calighero's men
fired into the crowd and wounded 19
spectators
mikhaile pantaleone who observed the
mafia's revival in his native village of
vilaba described the consequences of
amgod's occupation policies
quote by the beginning of the second
world war the mafia was restricted to a
few isolated and scattered groups and
could have been completely wiped out
if the social problems of the island had
been dealt with
the allied occupation and the subsequent
slow restoration of democracy
reinstated the mafia with its full
powers put it once more on the way to
becoming a political force
and returned to the onorata societa the
weapons which fascism had snatched from
it
so before we continue let's just point
out a couple of very key and important
things that have already happened
first of all the american uh military
establishment has already put itself
into debt with lucky luciano and the
sicilian mafia
in other words if we were going to be
dramatic about this or if this were a
fairy tale what they have done here is
they have signed
uh the pact with the devil they have
sold their soul to the mafia
secondarily the american military has
begun to put mafiosi in positions of
power
um in local villages and remember the
mafiosa already had a very strong
internal structure
so to put them in a position of power
was to make sure that very quickly the
mafioso were going to be completely in
power
thirdly and perhaps most importantly for
what we're discussing tonight
the pattern that we have looked at time
and time again on all these radio free
american broadcasts
um at the end of world war ii uh shows
up which is
the actual resistance the people who
have been fighting uh to free their
country from
uh the fascists in italy and also the
nazis as well
as happened in greece has happened in
vietnam has happened in many many other
places all over the world
the the actual resistance because the
fact that most of the effective
resistance came from leftist movements
who were well organized the actual
resistance was
uh betrayed by the western uh occupiers
and in this case as you can see as the
resistance began to build up strength
they began stopping
the arms drops cutting them back to
prevent them from maintaining power and
instead handed power over the mafia
this is a very very uh extremely
common thing and we've seen this happen
time and time again and what it is again
was the
effort on the part of the american
intelligence and military establishments
to shape the post-war world and to keep
the leftists out of power whenever
possible
unfortunately in most of these countries
most of the legitimate
uh middle of the road uh um
opposition had been destroyed by the
fascist governments um
the the leftists were anybody who even
slightly socialist was too far left for
these people in most cases
and so as a result the people who got
the power and in most cases the same
fascists
who had been cooperating avidly with the
nazis or the italians of the japanese
right so again for the purposes of the
discussion here
the uh sabotage that was in effect the
the axis sabotage on the
east coast docks during world war ii
leads u.s naval intelligence to make a
deal with the italian the american mafia
to basically use their influence on the
docks to eliminate this sabotage
that deal then basically results in the
lightning of the sentence of lucky
luciano the head of the american mafia
luciano in exchange for his support in
helping to eliminate axis sabotage
is guaranteed freedom after the war he
gets that freedom and along with many
other american mafiosi
is installed in a position of power in
italy some american mafia leaders went
to italy and
were installed in power such as veto
genovese under am got
some of them such as don calaguero were
there to begin with but the point is
that it was the american involvement
in sicily which restored the sicilian
mafia to power
that sicilian mafia under the at the
point that we're about to resume the
discussion
the then deported lucky luciano is one
of the dominant elements
in restoring the heroin trade the world
heroin trade recall that heroin
and illicit drug traffic in general was
almost brought to a halt
by world war ii the mafia in in italy
and sicily because
mussolini looked on them as a rival
power base was virtually eliminated
the us via its wartime and post-war
alliances
installs the mafia in sicily and as
indicated here the
mafia then duly set about machine
gunning various communists and leftists
that their american sponsors wanted
gotten rid of and as we'll see despite
the fact that as dave mentioned
mussolini decided to to move his mafia
rivals out of the way
during world war ii at the end of world
war ii finding themselves both in many
cases on the receiving end of uh
of uh oss and cia aid money
and secret loans and things like that uh
the mafia and the fascists began growing
back together uh to to cooperate in
fighting the quote-unquote communist
threat on behalf of their western
intelligence masters
by the way this uh fascist mafia axis
and its involvement of drug
drug trafficking is something we've
already looked at in our mediterranean
merry-go-round series about the pope
shooting
specifically in radio free america
number 20.
our program dealing with the ste-bomb
arms for drugs ring we looked at the p2
the italian fascists involvement
with an arms for drug smuggling ring
we'll be touching back on ste bomb
later in this series
returning once again to the politics of
heroin in southeast asia by alfred mccoy
now recall the sicilian mafia and
italian mafia virtually eliminated by
mussolini are now back in power stronger
than ever
due to the influence of the american
armies which had landed there and put
them back in power as part of the
military government
and used their uh assassination and
violence expertise
to help suppress communism in italy it
should be also noted by the way before
we get
into lucky luciano in his actual role in
reorganizing the heroin traffic after
world war ii
that the very resistance of uh the
communist and socialist groups
in europe to the fascist was one of the
things that had made them so power so
powerful they were both very popular
because the virtually the only
militarily significant resistance in
europe did come from the various
communist parties
that in turn made them very popular with
the populations of the countries that
had been occupied by the german and
italian army so it's sort of an ironic
situation
uh this was why the perceived communist
threat existed precisely because they
the communists were the only ones who
stood up to the fascists on the kind
in the occupied nations for all
practical purposes
so again the american military
government using the
mafia both to help get to help secure
the east coast docks
and to help get them into sicily when it
was occupied by the italian fascists and
to help them put down the perceived
communist threat after the war
that the sicilian mafia is back in power
stronger than ever
it's at this point in 1946 when lucky
luciano gets deported to sicily after
being freed as per
per his agreement with naval
intelligence this is where we're going
to resume
our narrative here again going back to
the politics of heroin in southeast asia
by alfred mccoy
in 1946 american military intelligence
made one
final gift to the mafia they released
luciano from prison and deported him to
italy
thereby freeing the greatest criminal
talent of his generation to rebuild the
heroin trade
appealing to the new york state parole
board in 1945 for his immediate release
luciano's lawyers based their case on
his wartime services to the navy and
army
although navy and naval intelligence
officers called to give evidence that
the hearings were extremely vague about
what they had promised luciano in
exchange for his services
one naval officer wrote a number of
confidential letters on luciano's behalf
that were instrumental in securing his
release
within two years after luciano returned
to italy the u.s government deported
over 100 more mafiosi as well
and with the cooperation of his old
friend don calaguero and with the help
of many of his old followers from new
york
luciano was able to build an awesome
international narcotic syndicate soon
after his arrival in italy
the narcotic syndicate luciano organized
after world war ii remains one of the
most remarkable in the history of the
traffic
for more than a decade it moved morphine
based from the middle east to europe
transformed it into heroin and then
exported it in substantial quantities to
the united states
all without ever suffering a major
arrest or a seizure
the organization's comprehensive
distribution network within the united
states increased the number of active
addicts from an estimated twenty
thousand at the close of world war two
to sixty thousand in nineteen fifty two
and two hundred and fifty thousand by
nineteen sixty five
after resurrecting the narcotics traffic
luciano's first problem was securing a
reliable supply of heroin
initially he relied on diverting legally
produced heroin from
one of italy's most respected
pharmaceutical companies chaparrali
however investigations by the u.s
federal bureau bureau of narcotics in
which disclosed that a minimum of 700
kilos of heroin had been diverted to
luciano over a four-year period
led to a tightening of italian
pharmaceutical regulations
but by this time luciano had built up a
network of clandestine laboratories in
sicily and marseille
and no longer needed to divert the
chaparrale product
morphine base was now the necessary
commodity thanks to his contacts in the
middle east
luciano established a long-term business
relationship with a lebanese
who was quickly becoming known as the
middle east's majors exporter of
morphine base
sami al-khuri e-l-k-h-o-u-r-y
through judicious use of broads and his
high social standing in beirut society
el curie established an organization of
unparalleled political strength
the directors of beirut airport lebanese
customs the lebanese narcotics police
and perhaps most importantly the chief
of the anti-subversive section of the
lebanese police
protected the import of raw opium from
turkey's anatolian plateau into lebanon
its processing into morphine base and
its final export to the laboratories in
sicily in marseilles
after the morphine left lebanon its
first step was the bob the bays and
inlets of sicily's western coast
there palermo's fishing trawlers would
meet ocean-going faders from the middle
east and international waters
pick up the drug cargo and then smuggle
it into fishing villages scattered along
the rugged coastline
once the morphine base was safely ashore
it was transformed into heroin into one
of luciano's clandestine laboratories
typical of these was the candy factory
opened in palermo in 1949
it was leased to one of luciano's
cousins and managed by don calaguero
himself
the laboratory operated without incident
until april eleventh nineteen fifty four
when the roman daily avanti published a
photograph of the factory under the
headline
textiles and sweets on the drug route
unquote
that evening the factory was closed and
the laboratory's chemists were
reportedly smuggled out of the country
once heroin had been manufactured and
packed packaged for export luciano used
his mafia connections to send it through
a maze of international roots to the
united states
not all of the mafiosi deported from the
united states stayed in sicily
to reduce the chance of seizure luciano
had placed many of them in such european
cities as milan
hamburg paris and marseille so they
could forward the heroin to the united
states after it arrived from sicily
concealed in fruits
vegetables or candy from europe heroin
was shipped directly to new york
or smuggled through canada and cuba
while luciano's prestige and
organizational genius were an invaluable
asset and a large part of his success
was due to his ability to
let me start again while luciano's
prestige and organizational genius were
an invaluable asset
a large part of his success was due to
his ability to pick reliable
subordinates
after he was deported from the united
states in 1946
he charged his longtime associate meyer
lansky with the responsibility for
managing his financial empire
lansky also played a key role in
organizing luciano's heroin syndicate
he supervised smuggling operations
negotiated with corsican heroin
manufacturers
and managed the collection and
concealment of the enormous profits
lansky's control over the caribbean and
his relationship with the florida-based
trafficante family were of particular
importance
since many of the heroin shipments
passed through cuba or florida on the
way to america's urban markets
for almost 20 years the ducano lansky
trafficante troika remained a major
feature of the international heroin
traffic
continuing organized crime was welcome
in pre-revolutionary cuba and havana was
probably the most
important transit point for luciano's
european heroin shipments
the leaders of luciano's heroin
syndicate were at home in the cuban
capital
and regarded it as a safe city
lansky owned most of the city's casinos
and the trafficante family served as
lansky's resident managers
in havana luciano's 1947 visit to cuba
laid the groundwork for havana's
subsequent role in international
narcotics smuggling traffic
arriving in january luciano summoned the
leaders of american organized crime
including meyer lansky to havana for a
meeting
and began paying extravagant bribes to
prominent cuban officials as well
the director of the federal bureau of
narcotics at the time felt that
luciano's presence
in cuba was an ominous sign quote
i had received a preliminary report
through a spanish-speaking agent i had
sent to havana
and i read this to the cuban ambassador
the report stated that luciano had
already become
friendly with a number of high cuban
officials through the lavish use of
expensive gifts
luciano had developed a full-fledged
plan which envisioned the
caribbean as his center of operations
cuba was to be made the center of all
international narcotic
operations unquote pressure from the
united states finally resulted in the
revocation
of luciano's residence visa and his
return to italy
but not before he had received
commitments from organized crime
leaders in the united states to
distribute the regular heroin shipments
he promised them
from europe the caribbean on the whole
was a happy place for american
racketeers
most governments were friendly and did
not interfere with the business ventures
that brought some badly needed capital
into their generally poor countries
organized crime had been well
established in havana long before
luciano's landmark voyage
during the 1930s meyer lansky discovered
the caribbean for northeastern syndicate
bosses and invested their illegal
profits in an assortment of lucrative
gambling ventures
in 1933 lansky moved into the miami
beach area and took over most of the
illegal off-track betting
and a variety of hotels and casinos
he was also reportedly responsible for
organized crime's decision to declare
miami
a quote free city in other words not
subject to the usual rules of
territorial monopoly
following his success in miami lansky
moved to havana for three years and by
the beginning of world war
ii he owned the hotel nacional's casino
and was leasing the municipal race track
from a reputable new york bank
burdened by the enormous scope and
diversity of his holdings
lansky had to delegate much of the
responsibility for daily management to
local gangsters
one of the lansky's earliest associates
in florida was santo trafacante
senior a sicilian-born tampa gangster
trafficante had earned his reputation as
an effective organizer in the tampa
gambling rackets
and was already a figure of some stature
when lansky first arrived in florida
by the time lansky returned to new york
in 1940 trafficante had assumed
responsibility for lansky's interest in
havana
and miami by the early 1950s trafficante
had himself become such an important
figure that he in turn
delegated his havana concessions to
santo trafficante jr
the most talented of his six sons santho
junior's official position in havana was
that of manager of the salsa c casino
but he was far more important than his
title indicates
as his father's financial representative
and ultimately meyer lansky's santo jr
controlled much of havana's tourist
industry
and became quite close to the pre-castro
dictator fulgencio batista
moreover it was reportedly his
responsibility to receive the bulk
shipments of heroin from europe
and forward them through florida to new
york and other major urban centers
where their distribution was assisted by
local mafia bosses
uh just to mention broadcasting from
foothill college this
is kfjc los altos hills so now we see
another
major change in the drug traffic and as
uh as
lucky luciano uh begins to develop his
stranglehold on the heroin traffic
and puts his assistant meyer lansky more
and more in charge of american
operations
uh meyer lansky discovers the benefits
of the caribbean and of miami
and of course to this very day miami is
is probably the us center for illegal
drug traffic
however one of the main things that's
changed is that cuba
is no longer the main stopping point in
the western hemisphere
for the illegal drugs coming in and of
course the reason for this
was the uh the revolution that brought
fidel castro to power and drove foreign
and his cronies out and uh because along
with batista and his cronies
um went the mafia and especially meyer
lansky and the traffic contest
and uh also their grip on uh the the
drug traffic and the gambling and all
those things that had made cuba
such a paradise for the mafia again the
tropicante
meyer lansky access is something that's
going to come back with a vengeance
later on in this series that we're doing
we'll be looking at the tropicante group
in particular much later in the program
yeah i think this would be a good time
to do it all right we'll do that then
we're going to take a break for a few
minutes and give you all a chance to get
up and turn around because uh
right now we're going to be going on
after this and beginning to talk about
some very interesting things having to
do with france
the marseille connection uh the corsican
mafia otherwise known as the union cross
and a variety of other fascinating
topics that some of you may not know
about and if so
uh you owe it to yourself to stick with
us we'll be back in just a few moments
dave and myself
and uh we will have more of radio free
america for you right here
on kfjc although as mentioned at the top
of the broadcast this is going to be a
three and possibly a four part series
and uh don't worry folks if you have a
favorite drug you want to know about
i will be getting to them give us time
but tonight we're talking about drugs
and we're quoting extensively
from a uh an unfortunately not very
well-known book called
the politics of heroin in southeast asia
by alfred mccoy as well as a few other
works
but this is an excellent book very hard
to get a hold of but it is uh
as i said earlier in the broadcast
perhaps the seminal work um
in the field it certainly got a lot of
other people started on this stuff
and uh it's a book that you deserve uh
you deserve for yourself if you bump
into it to pick up a copy of it
somewhere it's
well worth your time and trouble to have
it it's very hard to find
we've been talking so far about the uh
initial connections between
originally the office of naval
intelligence and then the oss and the
american military with the sicilian
mafia
the fact that the sicilian mafia which
was almost wiped out by mussolini
was brought back into a position of
power first by cooperating
uh with the american military occupation
of sicily
and then later on because the uh
american intelligence and military
people found them to be
as they sought a wholesome alternative
to the indigenous
uh communist and leftist um uh
freedom fighters um who actually had
been the resistance during the war
uh but the american uh military did not
find that to be a healthy thought that
these people would be in power after the
war so instead
uh wherever they went they put back in
either the original fascist
functionaries
or the mafia um then we talked about how
after the war how
lucky luciano set his heroin network in
motion
that was for a span of some 10 years
not only the by far the world's leading
heroin network but it also never
suffered a major arrest or a seizure and
how the
heroin uh using populist the united
states jumped dramatically after world
war ii
to a large extent because of the
american military and intelligence
establishment's cooperation
with luciano and the sicilian mafia we
also
we got the problems here there we go
there we go that's our problem uh we
also took a look at the
uh eventual establishment of cuba as a
major transshipment point for the
here we go before that as a major trans
shipment point uh
for the drugs from uh as we looked at
the
installation of cuba as a major trans
shipment point of the luciano drug
network okay the
drugs were firstly it left the middle
east they were grown in turkey they
departed from lebanon went to the
western coast of sicily
and eventually as we're going to see
marseille became the major refining
point we're going to get into that in
just a minute
from there they went to cuba and from
cuba of course to the united states
we're going to come back to cuba
the lansky tropicante access in just a
little bit actually probably
in a couple of programs but cuba and the
traffic content group are going to come
in uh later on in a
come come to figure in this scenario in
a big big way the point here being
that it was us naval intelligence
alliance the military intelligence
alliance
with the mafia first of all in operation
underworlds to secure american docs from
sabotage
and then by installing the the the
italian but the sicilian mafia
in power in in sicily after uh
after the uh american invasion there
this was the factor which created
the the well the resurgence of the mafia
in that part of the country so in that
part of the world
so that this basically is what we're
looking at here the uh the u.s military
intelligence
reinstalls the mafia in sicily the mafia
with luciano
then is is dominant as a dominant factor
in
restoring the drug traffic uh i want to
just leave leave the tape alone over
there
we're recording on this one right here
because it's i can't think of it it's
rewounding
my brain ain't big enough so once again
recapping here because
you have to forgive us folks but we are
we have to maintain our engineering
duties here while we're
being scholars and sometimes that's not
easy to to do if you hear occasional
bump in the text here it's probably just
because we're maintaining our equipment
and monitoring tapes and so forth
anyway again the mafia restored in
sicily by the us military
that restoration of the mafia through
operation underworld and their their use
as anti-communist cadres
is is an instrumental factor in
restoring the at that point almost
moribund
world heroin trade at this point now us
intelligence is not directly involved
with the trafficking of
narcotics but via their machinations in
the world and in via through a sort of a
quid pro quo
whereby in exchange for their
anti-communist expertise the mafia was
more or less left alone
we see the us intelligence essentially
creating the world conditions
for a resurgence in the world heroin
trade we're going to take a look at a uh
at further efforts in that regard right
now and in addition to restoring
the sicilian mafia the cia
was immediately after world war ii
responsible for placing the union course
the corsair can organize organized crime
syndicate into a similar situation with
regard to the docs in marseille
we're going to take a look at marseilles
development as a major heroin shipment
as a major heroin refining center
and its work in turn with the luciano
lansky mob here in just a minute
returning returning again to the
politics of heroin in southeast asia by
alfred mccoy
now mccoy here is going to comment
briefly on a situation which we touched
on earlier
namely the fact that it was the spirited
resistance given by the various
communist groups in europe
to the fascists which won them much of
the popularity which they retained to a
certain extent even to this day
in in particular italy and france in
france as
mccoy points out here the communist
party represented for all intents and
purposes the only
effective resistance against the nazis
mccoy comments on that in the politics
of heroin in southeast asia
the resistance in france itself was
hopelessly divided between the
communists
and non-communists although wartime
american propaganda films and post-war
french cinema have projected an image of
france as a nation in chains
with every other citizen a nighttime
warrior most frenchmen collaborated with
the germans willingly enough
and were indifferent if not outright
hostile toward the resistance
in contrast the communist party with its
strong anti-fascist ideology and
disciplined cell structure began
resistance activities almost immediately
and remained the only effective armed
organization in france until the 1944
allied landings in normandy
now that's an important factor to keep
in mind here that it was the communist
resistance which warned them their
popularity
now after the the after ve day basically
and after the surrender of nazi germany
the following situation was in effect in
france france was extremely poor it was
had suffered a great deal of damage
during the war and extreme austerity
measures were in effect throughout the
country
marseille had a very large uh communist
element in its working class that were
very well organized and they had been
very
active in the resistance in response to
a number of different things
notably the raising of the tram fares
which made getting to work extremely
difficult for a lot of the workers
there was a strike in marseille
now eventually the the
response to the strike was the with
the in response to the strike i should
say the socialist government
of marseille hired a number of different
gangsters from the union course that is
an organized crime syndicate run from
the island of corsica
very similar to the sicilian mafia in
function although it's organized
for it differently the corsican
syndicate the union course
was instrumental in beating up a number
of different communists in in the city
of marseille
including several uh legislators several
members of the city council who belong
to the communist party
in response to the union courses of the
corsican syndicates
beating of the sydney city council
members who were communists
the communists organized a huge general
strike in marseille which quickly spread
to the rest of france
so the strike that you're going to hear
nip referring to here was a huge
universe a
a general strike in effect in france it
began in marseille and spread to the
rest of the country
and bear in mind that uh this was
spurred by very very difficult
conditions that the the
conditions for workers in france at this
time were extremely poor
and the the incident in marseille which
was one of the best organized cities
from the communist
standpoint was more or less the the
match to the
tinderbox of france at the tinderbox of
france at the time
you're also going to hear uh the name
the guerrini's mentioned g-u-e-r-i-n-i
the guerrini's in this case antoine and
barthelemy guerrini
were two corsican brothers who ran at
one of the union
union cross gangs and they had fired on
some strikers and in fact uh one of this
one of the uh the demonstrators was
killed because of this action this led
to a
an increase of tension good point it was
the greenies too who beat up the
communist city council members to it and
that was another of the major elements
leading to the demonstrations which were
fired on so uh
the guarini brothers are front and
center here and they will be
instrumental
in the scenario which follows now this
particular strike as a matter of fact
we're reading about right now was called
when the guarinis were arrested
for the shooting and then uh four days
after they arrested the police
mysteriously dropped all the charges and
they were allowed to go free
and the local label labor confederation
decided that this was too much
and called the general strike again
reading from
uh politics of heroin the strike was
universal
throughout france marseille workers had
reached the breaking point at about the
same time as their comrades in the rest
of france
spontaneous wildcat strikes erupted in
factories
mines and railway yards throughout the
country
as militant workers took to the streets
demonstrating for fair wages and lower
prices
the communist party leadership was
reluctantly forced to take action
by the way for those of you not familiar
wildcat strike is a strike that has not
been organized from the top
down it's a strike that occurs on at a
local level or at a site or at a plant
so what they're saying here is that the
communist party leadership
actually followed the strike rather than
leading the strike
the communist party leadership was
reluctantly forced to take action
on november 14th the day after
marseilles unions went on strike
the leftist labor confederation cgt
called for a nationwide
general strike contrary to what one
might expect french communist leaders of
this era were hardly wild-eyed
revolutionaries
for the most part they were conservative
middle-aged men who had served their
nation well during the wartime
resistance
and now wanted above all else to take
part in the governance of their country
their skillful leadership of the wartime
resistance had earned them the respect
of the working class
and thanks to their efforts french
unionists had accepted low post-war
wages and abstained from strikes
in 1945 and 1946 however
their repeated support for draconian
government austerity measures began to
cost them votes in union elections
and in mid 1946 one u.s state department
analyst reported that communist leaders
quote
could no longer hold back the discontent
of the rank and file unquote
when wildcat strikes and demonstrations
erupted in mid-november 1947
the communist party was forced to
support them or forfeit its leadership
of the working class
at best its support was half-hearted but
by late november
three million workers were out on strike
and the french economy was
almost paralyzed ignoring their own
analysts
u s foreign policy planners interpreted
the 1947 strike as a political ploy
on the part of the communist party and
feared that it was a prelude to a quote
takeover of the government
the reason for this blindness was simple
by mid-1947
the cold war had frozen over and all
political events were seen in terms of
the quote
worldwide ideological clash between
eastern communism and western democracy
unquote apprehensive over soviet gains
in the eastern mediterranean
and the growth of communist parties in
western europe the truman administration
drew up the multi-billion dollar
european recovery plan in may known
popularly
as the marshall plan and established the
cia
in september determined to save france
from an imminent communist coup
the cia moved in to help break up the
strike choosing the socialist party
as its night stick on the surface it may
have seemed a bit out of character for
the cia to be backing anything so far
left as a socialist party
however there were only three major
political parties in france
socialist communist and gaulist and by a
simple process of elimination the cia
wound up betting down with the
socialists
while general de gaulle was far too
independent for american tastes
socialist leaders were rapidly losing
political ground to the communists and
were only too willing to collaborate
with the c i a
writing in the saturday evening post in
1967 the former director of the cia's
international organizations division
thomas w
braden explained the agency's strategy
of using leftists to fight leftists
it was personified by jay lovestone he
writes assistance david dubinsky in the
international ladies garment workers
union
once chief of the communist party in the
united states lovestone had enormous
grasp of foreign intelligence operations
in 1947 the communist confederacion
led out strike in paris which came very
close to paralyzing the french economy
a takeover of the government was feared
into this crisis stepped lovestone
and his assistant irving brown with
funds from dubinsky's union they
organized
far suvliere a non-communist union
when they ran out of money they appealed
to the c i a
thus began the secret subsidy of free
trade unions which soon spread
to italy without that subsidy post-war
history might have gone very differently
shortly after the general strike began
the socialist faction split off from the
cgt the confederation general
and force formed a separate union force
uvrier
with cia funds cia payments on the order
of one million dollars a year guaranteed
the socialist party a strong electoral
base in the labor movement and gave its
leaders the political strength to lead
the attack on striking workers
while marseille socialist leader gaston
de fer called for an anti-communist
crusade
from the floor of the national assembly
and in the columns of le provencal
socialist minister of the interior jewel
muk directed brutal police actions
against striking workers
with the advice and cooperation of the
u.s military attache in paris muk
requested the call up of 80 000
reservists and mobilized 200
000 troops to battle the strikers faced
with this overwhelming force
the cgt called off the strike on
december 9th after less than a month on
the picket lines
continuing the bloodiest battleground of
the general strike had not been in paris
as braden indicates
but in marseille victory in marseille
was essential for u.s foreign policy for
a number of reasons
as one of the most important
international ports in france
marseille was a vital beachhead for
marshall plan exports to europe
continued communist control of its docks
would threaten the efficiency of the
marshall planned and any future aid
programs
as the second largest city in france
continued communist domination of the
marseille electorate would increase the
chance that the communist party might
win enough votes to form a national
government
the communist party already controlled
twenty eight percent of the vote
and was the largest party in france the
growing split between marseilles
communist
and socialist parties and deferred
affairs willingness to serve american
interests
had already been revealed in national
assembly debates over the bloody
incidents on november 12th in marseille
instead of criticizing the guarinis for
beating the municipal councillors and
murdering them
and murdering the sheet metal worker
socialist leader gaston defeat chose to
attack the communists
quote the american and english flags
which were hanging from the city hall
were slashed by communist hordes
we have proof of what the communists are
capable i trust that the government will
take note of the consequences
the socialist party deplores these
incidents but it will not tolerate that
those who try to pass here as
representatives will be able to defy the
law
unquote several days later communist
deputy jean christophel
cristofo rebutted the fair's accusations
charging that the guarini's gangsters
were in the employee of both gallus
and socialist parties in marseille when
de faire rose to deny even knowing mr
guerrini another communist deputy
reminded him that a
guerrini cousin was the editor of the
affairs newspaper le pon vassal
then christopher took over took over to
reveal some disturbing
indications that marseille that the
marseille milieu's revival
some disturbing indications pointing to
the marseille milieu's
revival underworld collaborators were
being paroled from prison and government
officials were allowing allowing milieu
nightclubs to open
among them the guarini's parakeet club
the club had been closed in june of 1947
by order of christopher himself
then town mayor by the way interrupting
here milieu here is a slang term for the
marseille underworld it's kind of like
the mob in american parliaments but
milieu
is a french slang term for the uh
for the corsican syndicate in marseille
the socialists continuing now with
politics of heroin in southeast asia the
socialists first step in breaking
marseilles strike was purging suspected
communist supporters from the crs police
units interrupting again the crs police
units were
on ad hoc constabulary put together in
marseille
largely involving elements of the
marseille communist party
and it's worth noting that the crs units
had been very instrumental
in cracking down excuse me on the milieu
on the
corsican syndicate in marseille resuming
the socialist first step in breaking
marseilles strike was purging suspected
communist supporters from the crs police
units
once this was accomplished these units
could easily be ordered to use violent
tactics against the striking workers
thus although official reports had
nothing but praise for the cool
professionalism of these officers
socialist mayor gaston affair unjustly
accused them of having sided with the
demonstrators during the rioting of
november 12th
after socialist cadres drew up a list of
suspected crs communists
mayor de fer passed it along to
socialist minister jules mock moch who
ordered the blacklisted officers fired
this action by the socialists was
certainly appreciated by the
hard-pressed corsican syndicates as well
in sharp contrast to the regular police
crs units have been cracking down on the
media's smuggling in black market
activities
once these communist officers had been
purged crs units started attacking
picket lines with unrestrained violence
but it would take more than ordinary
police repression to break the
determination of marseilles 80
000 striking workers if the u.s was to
have its victory in marseille
it would have to fight for it and the
cia proceeded to do just that
through their contacts with the
socialist party the cia had sent
agents and a psychological warfare team
to marseille
where they dealt directly with corsican
syndicate leaders through the gurini
brothers
the cia's operatives supplied arms and
money to corsican gangs for assaults on
communist picket lines and harassment of
the important union officials
during the month long strike the cia's
gangsters and the purged crs police
units murdered
murdered a number of striking workers
and mauled the picket lines
finally the cia psychological warfare
team prepared pamphlets
radio broadcasts and posters aimed at
discouraging workers from continuing the
strike
some of the psywar team's maneuvers were
inspired
at one point the american government
threatened to ship sixty five thousand
sacks of flour meant for the hungry city
back to the united states unless the
doctors unloaded them immediately
the pressure of violence and hunger was
too great and on december 9th
marseilles workers abandoned the strike
along with their fellow workers in the
rest of france
there were some ironic finishing touches
on christmas eve of 1947
87 box cars arrived at the marseille
train station carrying flour
milk sugar and fruit as gifts from the
american people
unquote amidst the cheers of hundreds of
school children waving tiny american
flags
the guerrini's gained enough power and
status from their role in smashing the
1947 strike
to emerge as the new leaders of the
corsican underworld
but while the cia was instrumental in
restoring the corsican underworld's
political power
it was not until the 1950 dock strike
that the guerinis gained enough power to
take control of the marseille waterfront
this combination of political influence
and control of the docks created the
perfect environmental conditions for the
growth of marseilles heroin laboratories
fortuitously at exactly the same time
that mafia boss lucky luciano was
seeking
an alternate source of heroin supply so
again we see where the growth
of the heroin trade is inextricably
linked with the use
by intelligence specifically the cia
which has just been created
the use of intel intelligence's use of
uh
underworld gangs the very people who
deal in heroin as political hitmen
to prevent the rise of any sort of of
alternative or leftist governments
in europe immediately post world war ii
of course this was exactly the role that
we saw the sicilian mafia installed in
by the oss and amgot in italy and in
sicily
continuing now the same austere economic
conditions that had sparked the 1947
strike also produced the 1950. shutdown
conditions for the workers had not
improved in the intervening three years
and if anything had grown
worse marseille with its tradition of
working-class militancy had even more
reason for striking
marseille was france's gateway to the
orient
through which material particularly
american munitions and supplies
was transported to the french
expeditionary corps fighting in
indochina
the indochina was about as unpopular
with the french people then
as the vietnam war is with so many of
the american people today
by the way for those of you who are our
younger listeners or are not real
familiar with history the indochina war
was france's uh france being thrown out
of vietnam it is the vietnamese war it's
just the first part
of the vietnamese war vietnam was called
indochina in those days
the indochina war was about as unpopular
with the french people as the vietnam
war is with so many american people
today
this was written in 1972 and ho chi minh
had helped to found the french communist
party
and was a popular hero in france among
the leftist working class members
especially in marseille
with its many resident indochinese
in january marseille dock workers began
a selective boycott of those freighters
carrying supplies to the war zone
and on february 3rd the cgt convened a
meeting of marseille dock workers at
which a declaration was issued demanding
quote
the return of the expeditionary corps
from indochina
to put an end to the war in vietnam and
urging
quote all unions to launch the most
effective actions possible against the
war in vietnam
unquote the movement of arms shipments
to indochina was
paralyzed although the atlantic ports
joined in the embargo in early february
they were not as effective or as
important as the marseilles strike
by mid-february the shutdown had spread
to the metal industries
the mines and the railways but most of
the strikes
were half-hearted on february 18th the
paris newspaper combat
reported that marseille was once again
the hardcore
70 percent of marseilles workers
supported the strike compared to only 2
percent in bordeaux
20 in toulouse and 20 in nice
once more marseilles working-class
militancy called for special methods
and the cia's thomas braden later
recalled how he dealt with the problem
quote on the desk in front of me as i
write these lines is a creased and faded
yellow paper
it bears the following inscription in
pencil quote
received from warren g haskins fifteen
thousand dollars
signed norris a grambo unquote
i went in search of this paper on the
day the newspapers disclosed the quote
scandal of the central intelligence
agency's connections with american
students and labor leaders
it was a wistful search and when it
ended i found myself feeling sad
for i was warren g haskins norris a
grambo was irving brown of the american
federation of labor
the fifteen thousand dollars was from
the vaults of the cia and the yellow
paper is the last memento i possess of a
vast and secret operation
it was my idea to give fifteen thousand
dollars to irving brown
he needed it to pay off his strong arms
squads in the mediterranean ports
so that american supplies could be
unloaded against the opposition of
communist
dock workers unquote
with the cia's financial backing brown
used his contacts with the underworld
and a quote rugged fiery corsican
unquote named pierre
ferry pizani to recruit an elite
criminal terror squad to work the docks
surrounded by his gangster hirelings
fairy pizani stormed into local
communist headquarters and threatened to
make
the party's leadership quote pay
personally
for the continuing boycott and as time
magazine noted with great satisfaction
quote the first communist who tried to
fire ferry pizani's men was chucked into
the harbor unquote
in addition the guarini's gangsters were
assigned the job of pummeling communist
picket lines to allow troops and scabs
onto the docks
where they could begin loading munitions
and supplies
by march 13th government officials were
able to announce that
despite a continuing boycott by
communist workers
900 doctors and supplements
supplementary troops had restored normal
operations on the marseille waterfront
although sporadic boycotts continued
until mid-april
marseille was now subdued and the strike
was essentially over
but there were unforeseen consequences
of these cold war quote
victories in supplying the corsican
syndicates with money in support the cia
broke the last barrier
to unrestricted corsican smuggling
operations in marseilles
when control over the docks was
compounded with the political influence
the milieu gained with cia assistance
in 1947 conditions were ideal for
marseilles growth as america's
heroin laboratory the french police
later reported that marseilles first
heroin laboratories were opened in 1951
only months after the milieu took over
the waterfront
gaston de fer and the socialist party
also emerged victorious after the 1947
and 1950 strikes weakened the local
communist party
from 1953 until the present the
socialists
de fer and the socialists have enjoyed
an unbroken political reign over the
marseille municipal government
the gerini seem to have maintained a
relationship with marseilles socialists
members of the guarini organization
acted as bodyguards and campaign workers
for local socialist candidates until the
family's downfall in 1967
the control of the guerrini brothers
over marseilles heroin industry
was so complete that for nearly 20 years
they were able to impose an absolute ban
on drug peddling inside france at the
same time they were exporting
vast quantities of heroin to the united
states
with their decline in power due mostly
to their unsuccessful vendetta with
marcel francis in the mid-1960s
their embargo on domestic drug
trafficking became unenforceable
and france developed a drug problem of
her own now before we go on to discuss
this i just want to check with you dave
is this not the same tom braden who has
since become a tv broadcaster yes and
and now with that but
on the cable news he's the resident
liberal exactly he's the he is the left
to uh pat buchanan's right which is
uh again folks just evidence of the kind
of uh of
a real wide range of opinions that we
have available to us on network
broadcasting as dave is talking about
we're talking about a program on cnn
uh called crossfire where tom braden
this guy who's talking about
helping irving brown and his federation
to pay off the corsican thugs on the
docks to beat up
and kill communists this guy is now
representing the left on
on a cable television uh debate program
anyway so now what we've seen here is
the 1947 and 1950 strikes in mars say
that direct cia support and
psychological warfare and money support
at that
of the corsican gangsters led to
essentially uh creating the perfect
environment
for the heroin laboratories that would
become
the major heroin laboratories supplying
the united states
so time after time we've seen it already
in sicily and in
france where direct intervention by
american intelligence and military has
put
the gangsters in power and then has
given the gangsters the power
themselves to begin the heroin traffic
and as we're going to see folks these
are not isolated occurrences and in fact
the pattern begins uh continues to grow
and grow and grow
and again reiterate we have uh us
intelligence alliances with the sicilian
mafia
and the union course using both well the
sicilian mafia initially used
to guard the us waterfront and
eventually also used to help pave the
way for patton's invasion of sicily but
the primary role
of both the mafia and sicily the union
course in marseille
are as anti-communist cadres the power
given to these two criminal syndicates
via their alliance with u.s intelligence
places them in a position to effect a
resurgence of the world heroin trade and
that's just what they did
we've already looked at the luciano
organization's resurgence in sicily
and its eventual use of cuba as a trans
shipment point now we're going to take a
look at the
alliance at how both of these groups
both the sicilian mafia the onorata
societa
under lucky luciano and the union chorus
in marseille and we're going to look at
these two groups hooking up
again the two the two criminal
syndicates boosted by u.s intelligence
via their support for the these
syndicates as anti-communist cadres
now hook up and dominate the world
heroin trade
returning once again to the politics of
heroin in southeast asia by alfred mccoy
the basic turkey italy america heroin
route continued to dominate the
international heroin traffic for almost
20 years with only one important
alteration
during the 1950s the sicilian mafia
began to divest itself of the heroin
manufacturing business
and started relying on marseilles
corsican syndicates for their drug
supplies
there were two reasons for this change
as the diverted supplies of legally
produced chaparrally heroin began to dry
up in 1950 and 51
luciano was faced with the alternative
of expanding his own clandestine
laboratories or seeking another source
of supply
while the sicilian mafiosi were capable
international smugglers
they seemed to lack the ability to
manage they seem to lack the ability to
manage the clandestine laboratories
almost from the beginning illicit heroin
production in italy had been plagued by
a series of arrests
due more to mafiosi incompetence than
anything else of course moving supplies
in and out of laboratories
the implications were serious if the
seizures continued luciano himself might
eventually be arrested
preferring to minimize the risks of
direct involvement luciano apparently
decided to shift his major
source of supply to marseille there
corsican syndicates had gained political
power and control of the waterfront as a
result of their involvement in cia's
strike breaking activities
thus italy gradually declined in
importance as a center for illicit drug
manufacturing
and marseille became the heroin capital
of europe
although it is difficult to probe the
inner workings of such a clandestine
business under the best of circumstances
there is reason to believe that meyer
lansky's 1949-50 european tour was
instrumental in promoting marseilles
heroin industry
after crossing the atlantic in a luxury
liner lansky visited luciano in rome
where they discussed the narcotics trade
he then traveled at zurich and contacted
prominent swiss bankers through john
pullman an old friend from the rum
running days
these negotiations established a
financial labyrinth that organized crime
still uses today to smuggle its enormous
gambling
and heroin profits out of the country
into numbered swiss bank accounts
without attracting the notice of the u s
internal revenue service
so again the two crime syndicates
boosted into a position of primacy
in italy and france and sicily by virtue
of their alliances with the u s
intelligence
have now hooked up and represent the
dominant
uh factor in importing heroin now this
connection folks the one we've just been
looking at here
this cooperation between the sicilian
mafia and the union course
the trans shipment going first from
turkey to sicily to the marseille
laboratories down to cuba and up in the
united states
that is the french connection about
which the uh series of popular movies
starring gene hackman
uh was about oh maybe a decade or two
ago
but that that connection that french
connection which has proved just as
elusive as in the popular motion
pictures
was formed through this alliance with us
intelligence with these criminal
syndicates
the phenomena we just described is the
formation of the so-called french
connection
and as we're going to talk about a
little bit later in the broadcast and as
many of our
our longtime listeners are familiar with
the book that we uh quote from very
often and i think we're even going to
use
at least once tonight the great heroin
coup by heinrich krueger
is about the overthrow the word coup in
this case refers to the overthrow
of the french connection the old french
connection heroin traffic
my um a a heroin connection found more
uh
amicable to the nixon administration and
we'll get into that later and that's the
golden triangle heroin connection so
we're going to talk about that's the
heroin coup referred to in the book the
great heroin coup
now so far we've taken a look at a a
wartime alliance and an immediate
post-war alliance between u.s
intelligence
and criminal syndicates in both sicily
and marseille
and corsica the honorata societa or
mafia as it's commonly known
and the union course the corsican
organized crime syndicate so influential
in marseille
now we're going to take a look at an
alliance between us intelligence and an
organized crime syndicate again with
very strong political and anti-communist
overtones and activities
this one in china indeed now those of
you who
are again perhaps not as familiar as
they'd like to be with
with with world history may have heard
of chiang kai-shek and not be exactly
sure of where he came from uh chiang
kai-shek was a man who rose out of the
chaos that was china
um at the turn of the century um there
was a period at the time when the
the influence of uh the the chinese
government the the royal the monarchy in
china had declined sharply
um more and more the chinese were being
dominated in the coast cities by the
european powers who had set these coast
cities up places like macau hong kong
uh shanghai etc and uh
basically china was a country torn apart
a huge country too it's still and even
at that time it was by far the most
populous country in the world
in utter and total political disarray
well as so often happens in these cases
and we're seeing it right now in corazon
aquino's attempt to
try and standardize the government of
the philippines a little bit she's
facing a lot of resistance from warlords
scattered all over the provinces
well this is what china was like in the
nineteen teens and 1920s
it was essentially the province of the
europeans in the capital cities
um the old monarchy and the elite and
some of those people in the cat in the
in the coastal cities
and warlords out in the provinces and
warlords were exactly what they sounded
like essentially
it was strong man rule they were small
groups of essentially armed armed
bandits who had set themselves up in
positions of power
a lot of these people were in fact
themselves very heavily involved with
the then burgeoning opium traffic in
china
right now it's worth noting that
initially there was an alliance between
a group called the kuomintang
then headed up by a man named sunyat sen
who's generally regarded as probably
the single greatest patriotic figure in
the history of china although
you know perhaps one could call mao
zeitung or someone else at this stage of
the game
but for many many years sunyat sang
sunyat sen was the
dominant patriotic figure in china his
political group
the kuomintang or kmt as we'll see it
abbreviated here
set about to centralize china while sun
yat-sen was heading up the kuomintang
they formed a political law alliance
with the chinese communist party for the
purpose of overcoming the warlords and
centralizing china
when sunyat sen died the kuomintang was
taken over by chiang kai-shek who was
bitterly anti-communist and while at the
same time maintaining the appearance
of preserving the alliance sunyat sen
had formed with the chinese communist
party
in fact chiang kai-shek set about come
plotting against that party often
with the connivance of some of the very
warlords he was supposedly trying to
conquer
and uh eventually chang on uh initiated
a very bloody purge which was to
set off a civil war lasting roughly two
decades
going through the period of the world
war two and eventually culminating in
the chinese
uh takeover of the country and of course
to this day the mainland of china
is the people's republic but it began
with this break between the kuomintang
and the chinese communists
under chiang kai-shek indeed and as dave
mentioned at the time when
chiang kai-shek pulled the nationalist
party away from its its more progressive
roots
uh he made alliances with among other
people the warlords and the reactionary
elements that had been left over from
the old monarch
days okay so here's this is jiang kai
shek
uh the he himself a sort of young
warlord in charge of sunyat sen's
nationalist party
um and kmt the komen tang the party he
was in charge of zhang's control of
shanghai was made possible with the aid
of two
main groups wealthy merchants and
foreign capitalists
supported the kmt with the understanding
that there would be no reforms that
threatened their interests
and shanghai's major criminal group
strengthened their own hold on official
power
by enabling zhang to destroy the city's
communist party and labor movement
in 1927. these shanghai criminal
organizations were dominated by two
secret society groups called the
called the green and red circles or
gangs
secret societies whether political
social or criminal were traditionally an
important force in chinese society
whenever central authority broke down
during the 19th century the red and
green gangs had drawn their membership
from people involved in transporting
grain
and smuggling salt along the grand canal
china's primary north-south
north-south inland waterway after 1911
these groups shifted their activities
to the cities of central china
particularly to shanghai
shanghai had been an important chinese
center for the opium traffic since the
1840s
when britain's victory in the opium war
opened the port to foreign trade and the
establishment of foreign controlled
areas
or concessions which by the 1930s
included almost a third of the city's
3.5 million people
the city's tradition of involvement in
opium and other vices that tended to
accompany the western presence in asia
was tailor-made for the green and red
gangs
both evolved into criminal organizations
whose role in the narcotics trade and in
the anti-communist movement
suggest parallels with the roles of the
sicilian mafia and corsican syndicate
groups in europe
one of shanghai's most influential
citizens was tu
narcotics overlord anti-japanese patriot
and leader of the green gang
who began his career in shanghai's
french settlement a noted center of
illicit activities where criminals were
permitted to operate freely
we may want to spell some of these
complicated chinese names for people
because i
did i know that probably if i was
listening i wouldn't necessarily know be
able to anticipate how that was spelled
good point uh the one we're talking
about now of course the uh the narcotics
overlord head of the green gang is two
that's the last name in chinese of
course it's it's put first
t u tu and then his first name is
yuexing
y u e h dash s h e n g
two ue shang narcotics overlord
anti-japanese patriot and leader of the
green gang
who began his career in shanghai's
french settlement a noted center of
illicit activities
where criminals were permitted to
operate freely in exchange for tax
profits
on vice the french turned the
administration of the settlement over to
the gangs
two became the protege of a man known as
pockmarked
huang h-u-a-n-g who is the chief of
detectives in the french concession
and a major green gang leader in
addition to owning several opium dens
huang served an important function as
intermediary in negotiations
and disputes between various groups in
the foreign controlled and chinese
settlements
prior to 1918 shanghai's opium traffic
was based in the british concession
under the control of chinese from the
suatau area of quangtung province
in 1918 the british concession cracked
down on opium
depriving the swatal group of its base
and opening the traffic to takeover
by the green gang operating from the
french concession
during the nineteen twenties two uh
sheng unified the competing gangster
organizations involved in the drug
traffic
and extended his influence from the
french settlement out to the more
prosperous
international settlement two
became one of the quote big three among
the shanghai gangsters
working with pak mark huang and chang
xiao lin spelled c-h-a-n-g and then the
other name
h-s-i-a-o-l-i-n
this unholy triumvirate controlled the
city's underworld in early 1927.
when zhang's when jiang's northern
expedition forces approach now this is
chiang kai-shek they're talking about
when zhang's northern expedition forces
approached in late february 1927 labor
unions allied with the kmt
again chang's political party moved
against warlord control and foreign
economic domination began a general
strike
planning to welcome chiang's armies to a
liberated shanghai
for his part chiang kai-shek was
actively courting the support of wealthy
conservative and foreign businessmen
a strong united labor movement was a
major impediment
consequently in late february zhang's
forces delayed their advance toward the
city
hoping that reprisals by the british-run
international settlement police and the
chinese garrison commander
would break the strike and destroy its
leadership
despite bloody reprisals labor
organizers ordered a second strike to
begin march 21st
a massive display of workers power that
shut down the city
once again in anticipation of the kmt's
victorious advance
although there was a disturbing evidence
that chang was beginning to conduct a
violent purge of communists
and suspected communists in the cities
under his control
the communist leadership with the
encouragement of common turn advisors
doggedly continued to support the
alliance
and with increasing difficulty ignored
the ominous signs of kmt treachery
the strike caused considerable
consternation in the chinese and foreign
business communities
and chang said about persuading these
interests to support him
simultaneously avoiding a public
declaration of outright hostility toward
the communists
on arriving in shanghai in late march he
met first with pak mart
wang and later with leading chinese
industrialists and bankers who became
satisfied
that under chang's control there would
be no further trouble from organized
labor
the gratified businessman then presented
him with a quote loan
of three million shanghai dollars the
first of a series of lucrative donations
okay so what we're seeing here as we
mentioned the beginning is chiang
kai-shek
taking originally a nationalist movement
in in this case
um the the komentang party originally a
nationalist and progressive movement
interested in unifying the government of
china
and not only taking it over but then
beginning a purge of the communists and
actually betraying
uh the nationalist supporters in the
city who are doing who are performing a
labor strike against foreign economic
domination
instead chiang kai-shek has already
decided that foreign domination is what
he's interested in
and uh sits outside the city much in the
same way that the americans refused to
drop arms to the uh
to the uh the communist uh resistance in
northern italy
um chiang kai-shek decides to wait
outside the city to see if the british
and the chinese garrison soldiers
uh wipe out the strikers who again
remember are people who are supposed to
be
uh his allies these are but but the fact
that they are labor
the fact that they are progressive and
the fact that chiang kai-shek was even
at that point moving to the extreme
right
uh meant that they were no longer useful
to him so
chiang kai-shek comes into shanghai
after allowing the
the strike to be uh severely stomped on
and immediately begins to court um the
local gangsters and the person of
pockmark twang
who had already been a part of the power
structure and also
the local businessman who then give him
three million dollars so chiang kai-shek
is now riding tall in the saddle
in shanghai and beginning to thoroughly
purge any leftist or moderate elements
out of his nationalist party
and broadcasting from foothill college
this is kfjc los altos hills
now returning again to china from uh
here in the south south bay california
the the main ally the chiang kai-shek
enlisted in order to break the working
class of shanghai
was none other than to ushang one of the
big three unquote of shanghai gangsters
and for our purposes here perhaps most
noteworthy the man who at this point
dominates the opium traffic
in shanghai returning to the politics of
heroin in southeast asia
chang had some 3 000 troops under his
command in the city
pitted against a larger but poorly armed
force of workers and communists
he doubted whether his soldiers could be
trusted to turn against the workers
groups
which they considered their main allies
and turned to two u.s sheng and his
colleagues for help it is widely
believed that chang and his youth
have become a fully initiated member of
shanghai's green gang
regardless of whether this is the case
chang and the green gang shared a common
interest in destroying shanghai's labor
movement
by serving chang the gangs could and did
increase their influence in wealth
at chang's behest two organized a
moderate labor group
the common advancement association which
recruited and
armed thousands of gangsters throughout
the city
the communists and other labor leaders
pathetically tragically determined to
maintain the charade of alliance with
the kmt
were taken by surprise and massacred
many of them by two's gangsters
beginning april 12
1927 and considering continuing
sporadically for months
as a result of this coup shanghai's gang
leaders grew even more powerful
in appreciation for their services and
their delivered and anticipated
performance as intermediaries between
chang and the foreign community
the big three were appointed as honorary
advisers unquote to the nationalist
government
furthermore to uae shang was made a
major general at chiang's headquarters
in addition to serving as a municipal
official
and as an employee of the american-owned
shanghai power company
as the purge continued after 1927 the
gangsters with komen tang
and foreign support thoroughly
infiltrated shanghai's labor movement in
order to prevent a recurrence of the
pre-1927
threat unquote from organized labor
in september of 1931 for example one
non-communist labor organizer who had
led a tramway strike in a french
settlement was denounced
arrested and sentenced to 10 years
imprisonment after a trial that lasted
10 minutes
chiang kai-shek's opium programs further
illustrate the gap between the
kuomintang's original political idealism
and the sordid reality of conditions
under his dictatorship
like the warlords chang needed money to
finance his military campaigns in august
of 1927
the nationalists legalized the opium
trade setting up a monopoly to tax opium
sales
before public pressure forced the
schemes abolition in july of 1928
the government had made an estimated 40
million chinese dollars
unofficial government sponsorship of the
opium trade continued
and to ushang was a central figure until
when he reportedly cured his own
addiction and dropped out of gambling in
the drug traffic leaving its operation
to other members of the green gang
to compensate for two's financial loss
one of his close friends was given
control of the newly formed state
lottery
while two devoted his full attention to
suppressing shanghai's labor movement
the most well-publicized nationalist
campaign against opium was begun in 1934
chang was beginning a new life movement
unquote which derived from the confucian
belief that individual reform is the key
to curing the ills of society
the programs of the new life movement
outmoded and hopelessly inadequate
never began to solve china's pressing
social problems
but its idealism and chiang's own
professed christianity were incompatible
with the drug traffic
a national opium suppression bureau was
organized whose regulations involve
penalty penalties of life imprisonment
or death for pushers
although improving social welfare was
the stated aim of this anti-opium
campaign
its major objective was to gain control
of the financial base
of chang's warlord opponents the
kuomintang leader appointed himself
commissioner for opium suppression
in 1935 by 1936 he had succeeded in
re-rooting opium moving toward the coast
from yunnan and queichow
so that it was sent north through hang
cow on the yangtze river
and then to shanghai thus depraving
depriving kuang si province of its opium
revenue
opium production was reduced but the
government generally hoarded seized
opium instead of destroying it
according to one source during the
period 1934-7
the government made an estimated 500
million chinese dollars from its
suppression program
japan mounted a full-scale invasion of
china in 1937 driving the kuomintang
government into the interior
although the war in the pacific halted
the flow of heroin from china to the
united states after 1941
the drug traffic from china continued
during the war the kuomintang and the
japanese freely traded a variety of
goods
including opium across mostly stagnant
battle lines
japan played an official role in the
narcotics business in occupied china
in manchuria the japanese authorities
used opium as a revenue source
in 1938 its sale accounted for 28
percent of general budget receipts
nang king under japanese occupation had
an estimated 50
000 heroin addicts and in shanghai about
6 of the 1.5 million dollars spent every
month on drugs was used to buy heroin
the japanese invasion separated chiang
kai-shek from his main source of
financial support
but his government had a store of
szechuanese opium that had been
confiscated during the suppression drive
to ue sheng took charge of shipping the
seized opium to the coast
and eventually it was sold at macau and
hong kong both then under japanese
control
some of the same stock was finally sold
by shanghai's official monopoly
which operated under japanese protection
after japan's defeat in 1945
chang's forces made a speedy return to
shanghai acting with the support of the
american government
and the cooperation of the defeated
japanese in order to reaffirm kuomintang
control
and forestall the communists once again
corruption and vice including narcotics
flourished with the participation of
china's nationalist officials
so let's take a look at what we've
looked at here so far we've taken a look
first of all how to uh shang
a shanghai gangster came to monopolize
the
the opium trade in shanghai we then took
a look at how his aid was enlisted by
chiang kai-shek
and the green gang to ue shang's
criminal syndicate
was then used as a sort of again an
anti-communist cadre
by the kuomintang in order to put down
the chinese workers in shanghai
and it's worth noting also that even
after tui shang himself
got out of the opium traffic he
delegated the control of the opium trade
to other members
of the green gang and at this point the
the green gang under two uh shang is
basically functioning as an
agent or as an arm of the kuomintang
national security establishment
it's also worth noting here and this is
a pattern we're going to be looking at
uh
so much much uh later in the series and
it's it's unfortunately a very common
pattern of the very governments
that are professing to control the opium
trade in fact
use the drug controlled apparatus to
maintain control of that traffic and to
manipulate it for political ends in this
case we've seen chiang kai-shek
denying his warlord opponents the
revenue from the opium trade
at the same time as that very opium
trade is used to provide revenues for
his own organization and
including again the green gang under two
u.s shang now this green gang is very
very important because the green gang
like a lot of other criminal syndicates
we've looked at eventually came to
work for us intelligence i'm going to
read a very short segment now but we'll
be reading more later on from a
wonderful book
um called the great heroin coup which
we've used quite a bit on our broadcast
we'll be using this book a lot in other
other broadcasts in this series
indeed it's it's a wonderful work we
were just talking to one of the kfcc
people here tonight about it
also a book that is not currently in
print i don't believe but one that if
you can track it down in a library
or if you especially find a used copy
somewhere or you want to contact
perhaps tom davis or somebody like that
for a copy you would be it would be more
than worth your time to do it
the book is again titled the great
heroin coup drugs intelligence and
international fascism
copyright 1980 the author heinrich
krueger and uh
the book was originally published by
south end press in boston
okay well by the way we're going to be
reading here the book has an excellent
forward by peter dale scott one of the
top political researchers in this
country and a professor at the
university of california at berkeley he
wrote an excellent forward to this book
and it's from this forward that we're
going to be quoting right now
indeed okay small segment here the u.s
government's narcotics mafia connection
goes back
as is well known to world war ii
two controversial joint operations
between oss
office of strategic services and oni u.s
naval intelligence
established contacts via lucky luciano
with the sicilian mafia and via tai li
who we will be talking about more on the
broadcast with the dope dealing green
gang of tu yue xing
in shanghai both connections were
extended to the post-war period as the
luciano
and kmt network slowly resumed their
pre-war
contacts so what we're going to be
looking at now as is mentioned briefly
in peter del scott's forward
is not only the fact of chiang kai-shek
and his collusion
with tj shang's shanghai dope syndicate
the green gang
but in fact the direct connections of
the u.s government
through shanghai sheck and through tai
li who we're going to be talking about
during the broadcast
right into that same milieu in just the
same way that we became
involved in heroin traffic in sicily and
in
marseille although it should be noted
that the involvement of u.s intelligence
with the narcotics traffic in
in the cases of sicily and marseille and
so far
also in china was is indirect in other
words the
support given to these organized crime
syndicates enabled them to become prime
players
because later on we're going to be
dealing with u.s intelligence
involvement directly
well said to this point uh the the it's
again it's a purely political maneuver
on the part
of the american intelligence and
military establishments but
as we shall see um it's very hard to
plant those kinds of seeds without
reaping the kinds of plants that grow
out of them
indeed and uh those plants have indeed
been reaped and again at this point
the political influence creates the
political circumstances leading to the
resurgence
of with a vengeance of the international
heroin trafficking eventually we'll look
at direct again
direct u.s participation direct
participation of u.s intelligence
services
in that traffic now remember the
green gang under two yua shang are being
used as in essence a a branch
of the kuomintang national security
establishment an anti-communist cadre in
much the same fashion as
the oss and cia used the sicilian mafia
and union chorus in the examples we
looked at earlier
once again u.s intelligence was to form
an alliance with the green gang
this time through a fellow named tai li
who was over to ue shang in the
kuomintang national security
establishment we're going to be reading
now about the alliance between the green
gang tai li tu yua shang and u.s
intelligence from a book called
oss subtitled a secret history of
america's first central intelligence
agency
published by or authored rather by r
harris smith and it was published in
hardcover by the university of
california press
berkeley 1972. so
again our harris smith oss about the
alliance between u.s intelligence
thai lee to your shang and the green
gang algon lucy l-u-s-e-y
a former united state a former uh united
press correspondent in shanghai
was a second donovan agent at the
chinese capital interrupting
william donovan was the head of oss the
office of strategic services america's
wartime intelligence
service beginning again algon lucy
a former united press correspondent in
shanghai was a second donovan agent at
the chinese capital
he had first been hired as a propaganda
specialist by the sherwood branch of col
lucy had little contact with gail having
been assured by
quote some very influential and powerful
chinese unquote
that the professor was not in the best
of repute unquote
beside hatching a feudal plot to smuggle
submachine guns to the formosan
independence movement
unquote lucy devoted his energies to
cult cultivating the friendship of
captain
milton mary miles m-i-l-e-s
a naval officer who flew to china in may
of 1942
with vague orders to find out what is
going on out there
unquote and to do whatever you can to
help the navy
and to heckle the japanese unquote what
most interested lucy was that miles
an experienced veteran of the u.s
asiatic squadron had developed close
ties to a mysterious chinese
general named tai li that's tai and then
li operating under the innocuous title
of
director bureau of investigation and
statistics unquote
tai li was actually the chief of a
combined secret police and intelligence
organization said to control over three
hundred thousand agents throughout china
and in every foreign nation where
chinese communities existed
from bangkok to saigon to san francisco
the short stocky chinese was a shadowy
figure who had achieved legendary
stature
there were whispered tales of his
miraculous escapes from countless
japanese assassination attempts
it was rumored that he had acquired
great wealth throughout his contro
he had acquired great wealth through his
control of the opium trade
that he supervised concentration camps
for critics of the chang government
that he had no qualms about ensuring
thought control through political
executions
general thai according to one oss report
was quote not the admiral canaris of
china but the heinrich himmler
uh interrupting the place that
referenced admiral konaris was the head
of the abv german german military
intelligence during world war ii
and of course heinrich kimmel was the
head of the ss and again one oss report
compared to him said that he was more
like hitler himmler rather
than admiral canaris more like a uh
repressive terror chief
and uh and butcher than a true espionage
master continuing thai li was also the
quote completely trusted subordinate and
guardian of the generalissimo subject
only to the generalissimo's orders
unquote his loyalty to chang was a
unique tr was a unique trait among
the merry nest of gangsters general
stillwell's term who comprised the
kuomintang administration
their friendship went back to the 1920s
when tai li had joined the chinese
communist party to spy for chang
his military mentor the generalissimo
then turned against his communist allies
and tai lee was assigned the task of
prosecuting his former comrades
the general acquired the services of an
underworld group of shanghai hoodlums
the green gang who specialized in
kidnapping and extortion
and gave them official respectability as
the foundation for his secret police
organization
general thai also had a long-standing
reputation as a xenophobe who rarely met
with foreigners
that was why captain miles friendship
with the enigmatic general was
of such great interest to lucy with the
agreement of chiang kai-shek
tai li had already suggested to miles
that they cooperate in a sino-american
friendship plan for the training of
thousands of chinese guerrillas and
espionage agents
miles had at first been suspicious of
tai li when he learned that general
thai's men had developed poisons in the
form of bayer
aspirin tablets and carter's little
liver pills he rushed home to collect
all his household medicines and locked
them away in a four combination safe
but his weariness faded and he soon
refused to believe that tai lai was
quote
the head of a chinese ogpu with which
anyone from the united states would be
embarrassed to associate
unquote without consulting washington
miles agreed to the friendship plan lucy
had mixed feelings about the project
he informed washington that tie lies or
ty lee's organization was quote
very efficient and we can use it to
great advantage it is also considered
utterly ruthless
and the inner circle impresses me as
being a bunch of cutthroats unquote
nevertheless to keep in miles good
graces lucy asked oss headquarters to
help procure a shipment of
short-barreled shotguns for the use of
tai lee's
quote swell bunch of hard-hitting honest
men
good gunmen in the occupied territories
unquote
so before nip continues with the saga of
tylee and the oss let's review
very briefly because we've looked
already at two u.s shang
shanghai organized crime leader head of
the green gang
and in that capacity the monopoly has a
monopoly
over the shanghai opium traffic chiang
kai-shek's government itself becomes
sort of the official
uh guarantor of the opium traffic
controlling it in political means
political ways in order to deny the
warlords opium revenue or guaranteeing
his own kuomintang organization
that very same revenue the green gang is
then used by chiang kai-shek
to suppress worker strikes in shanghai
it then becomes an official wing
of the kuomintang military and
intelligence apparatus and tu yuexiang
himself becomes a general
under chiang kai-shek chiang kai-shek's
intelligence chief
tai li uses the green gang as the
foundation for his
all his his organization throughout
china so we've got tai li
over to you shang and the green gang
using this criminal syndicate as an
inextricable part of his own
intelligence system
and now we've seen tai li working with
uh officer miles of u.s naval
intelligence
and this relationship between tai li tu
yuashing the green gang
and u.s intelligence is to be cemented
now chiang kai-shek of course because of
the fact that tai li was one of the few
people of his uh
gang of uh mary bandits or whatever it
was that was stillwell's term
um one of the few people that he trusted
um thought it was a great idea that the
that the oss should make their
connections with his intelligence
service and the person of tai li
so chiang kai-shek pressed for the
acceptance of this quote-unquote
friendship plan
to connect the two services and uh
washington which had
had very little other ways to get a lot
of get a lot of the intelligence
information that they wanted in asia uh
reluctantly went along with it
reading again from oss by r harris smith
after several months of negotiations and
with roosevelt's verbal approval
donovan and secretary of the navy knox
put their signatures
donovan again of course is william
donovan of the oss donovan and secretary
of the navy knox put their signatures to
a secret technical agreement
with the chinese government this pact
created a joint secret service the
sino-american cooperative organization
s-a-c-o under the directorship of ty
lee miles was deputy director as well as
far eastern chief of oss
and commander of navy group china
saco sacco was to engage in guerrilla
training espionage
guerrilla training espionage sabotage
and radio interception
the chinese agreed to supply manpower
and facilities
while arms and equipment would come from
the united
states it should just briefly be
mentioned to those who are not familiar
one of the great curses of general
stillwell general stillwell was probably
one of the greatest generals in the
history of the united states and a man
who because of the political situation
that he got
stuck into which was the the milestone
that was world war two china
uh has never received proper credit for
his for his uh his acumen
but uh one of the things that was going
on during world war ii and it's
important to realize here is that chiang
kai-shek had absolutely no intention
whatsoever
to fight the japanese in the north in
the northern provinces of china of
course
again as was true in france and in italy
the communists were the ones who were
actively fighting the japanese now the
japanese occupation of china had been
particularly repressive even by japanese
standards that had been going on
since uh for two years before the war in
europe had even started
um and uh chiang kai-shek however was so
terrified or not terror he was so well
yeah he was so terrified of the
communist opposition which had a lot of
support
among the people of the country whereas
chiang kai-shek had support only of
uh the military uh the foreign bankers
etc etc
um he was so frightened that he let um
he would rather do anything than
actually waste
any of his own particular weapons or
resources fighting the japanese
what he did for all of world war ii was
to stand around and tell the united
states essentially to keep sending him
money so he could fight the japanese
and use that to stockpile weapons
against the communists
while the communists in the north were
fighting the japanese with hoes and
shovels and rifles
now because of this fact the entire
chiang kai-shek government was geared to
one concept only and that was
to make a pile of money to outlast the
war
and then with us help consolidate
themselves but there was always the
possibility that they that the
government would fall through so like
so again the first priority making money
became very important
in the drain of u.s funds and others
from the treasuries of the kuomintang
were phenomenal hundreds and hundreds of
millions of dollars sucked
out of the uh the uh lend lease east
agreement
and going directly into the pockets of
america of chinese officials
so this is one of the things that was
going on with ty lee and
chiang kai-shek these people were not
leaders of a government in the common
sense these were people who had
a golden goose and they were going to
ring every last egg out of it
while they had the opportunity before
the people in china rose up on moss
which they did and threw them out on
their ear now because of the fact that
general stillwell wanted chiang kai-shek
to fight the japanese
he uh was at odds with chiang kai-shek
whom he couldn't stand and the feeling
was mutual
eventually general stillwell was
replaced by someone whose political
sympathies were much much more closely
in tune with those of chiang kai-shek
and that's a fellow we've looked at in
the past
namely general albert cody wedemeyer
wiedermeyer's education
his his military education could be
accurately described as nazi
in as much as he was a graduate of the
creeksville academy the german west
point in essence
and we looked at him at considerable
length and radio free america show
number 11.
also we touched up back on general
wiedemeyer
in radio free america number 14.
wedemeyer himself
had an extraordinary number of uh
fascist connections
he rented his apartment from gerhard
rossbach a leader of the stormtroopers
who later went to work for the cia he
was a close friend of ludwig beck
chief of the german general staff and in
fact in his own
biography his own autobiography
wiedemayer reports we admire
comments that he was even known around
the kriegsbear academy for being a
a an enthusiastic siege heiler so we
looked at wedemeyer
at great length again in radio free
america show number 14
including his probable participation in
the assassination well actually his
definite
participation in the assassination of
president kennedy according to the
sedesi the french
military intelligence service eventually
wedemeyer again much more closely in
tune with the
died in the wool anti-communist
sentiments of chiang kai-shek
replaces general stilwell it's worth
noting that
that when wedemeyer becomes american
commander in china an adviser to chiang
kai-shek
wedemeyer centralized all intelligence
operations in china
under his command however one of the
stipulations was to be that all covert
activities had to be cleared by both the
american army
and the chinese government and as we're
about to see that placed one of that
placed tai li through one of his closest
aides
in a position to veto any intelligence
operation that he disagreed with now
this is significant
uh because one of the the interesting
aspects of tai li and the whole
kuomintang
axis was that at times they would
actually collaborate with the japanese
against
the chinese and uh oss eventually
wound up at severe loggerheads with the
thai lee organization even though they
technically formed an alliance with them
because of the fact that tai li would
not permit oss to function in connection
with the chinese
communists now the chinese communists
were the most effective fighting force
against the japanese in china
as such oss wanted to give them the
necessary logistical support to do the
job and basically save american lives by
pinning down jan killing
japanese troops this was totally opposed
by chiang kai-shek
and in fact the oss was convinced the
tai lis organization was murdering their
own chinese agents who attempted to
affect liaison with the communists
although they weren't able to prove this
the british actually came much closer to
proving that and the british uh
actually sent aids sent agents into
china to spy on tai li who they felt had
german sympathies
incidentally one of the things we also
looked at in radio free america show
number 11 was the fact that after tai li
was killed in a plane crash
the head of chiang kai-shek's military
intelligence
was headed up by will the the head of
that became a man named louis
sifkin who formerly was a nazi spy who
helped transmit intelligence
on pearl harbor to the japanese
facilitating their attack on pearl
harbor
at any rate though it's worth noting
that after general wedemeyer
and the background on him again in radio
free america number 11
after wedemeyer assumes control of the
american military situation in china
he cements american american military
intelligence operations
to the organization of tai li in other
words the thai lea organization now has
veto power
over any intelligence operation in the
area and one last thing just to remind
you the foundation
of the thai lea organization is the
heroin dealing green
gang right again tai li is the person
over to yue shang in the green gang
although the green gang represents the
core
of thai lee's organization continuing
now but from oss by our harris smith
but wedemeyer had a further proviso for
clandestine operations
he centralized all planning for secret
services at his headquarters
and insisted that future covert
activities be cleared
unquote by both the american army and
the chinese government
to represent the generalissimo in the
clearance machinery the chinese
government appointed a general who is
actually one of thai lee's closest aides
oss thus met with official chinese
objections whenever an operation
requiring communist cooperation was
proposed
in february of 1945 a contingent of jed
birds by the way those were commandos
who'd worked behind the lines in europe
a contingent of jedbergs was flown to
china for commando operations
upon their departure from the united
states they were told that they would be
working with communist guerrillas
as many of them had done in france but
the jeds never reached north china
neither did an oss team organized to
direct and actually operate an entire
military communications network for the
communists
the unit commanded by frank farrell a
new york newspaper editor in marine
uniform
waited impatiently at oss headquarters
in kunming throughout the spring of
1945.
the central government refused to
sanction the mission
thai lee and miles continued to charge
that oss was collaborating with yi nan
interrupting enon was the communist
chinese capital during world war ii
in july miles claimed that oss had
dropped submachine guns to
communist plane closeman unquote at
shanghai the point here now is that uh
the
thai lee organization is bound even more
closely to the american commitment in
china even though
that commitment was actually in as far
as its effectiveness against the
japanese was concerned
was compromised by this very alliance
even general wedemeyer himself and his
political sympathies could accurately be
described as fascist
uh general wiedemeyer himself spoke very
highly although he was
militantly anti-communist in his own
writings he spoke very highly
of the military performance of the
chinese communists and while
the war was still going on did what he
could to try and
work with those chinese communists but
but thai lee himself and his
organization
would not permit this so it's worth
noting here that this alliance actually
cost american lives because the japanese
even until quite late in the war enjoyed
good military success
in china simply due to the fact that the
kuomintang was not interested in
fighting the japanese
a lot of americans lost their lives as a
result of that
gonna read one last short segment and
then we're going to take a break and
give you a chance to get up and stretch
a little bit
this is from the great heroin coup again
by henry krueger
and he's writing again in sort of a more
an overview of
what some of the results of these things
were again he's talking about 1948 at
this
point meanwhile in the united states
kmt agents helped establish a powerful
china lobby and collaborated with
friends and u.s
agencies to target and in some cases
drive from the government
old foes of the former us kmt
thai lee alliance including those inside
the oss
before i finish this segment let me just
mention real quickly you hear the china
lobby a lot
the china lobby was a group composed of
a variety
of mostly right-wing americans and
chinese
the chinese most of them directly out of
the chiang kai-shek government
the leader of the china lobby was in
many ways well besides henry luce of
time magazine also general claire chanel
a very close friend of the general isimo
chiang kai-shek
and it was the china lobby in fact and
the
the uh accusations of the china lobby
that people in the state department had
given
china away to the communists an
accusation that any reasonable historian
would laugh at because the chiang
kai-shek
government was so far from being an
actual government it was laughable
but it was those accusations by the
china lobby against
various members of the state department
and the foreign service that actually
started the mccarthy era in the united
states
and the allegations of communist
subversion within the government
we looked at the china lobby again in
radio free america show number 11 we
looked at part of its origin that we
repeated that in radio free america
number 14
about the world anti-communist league in
general radio free america's 14 and 15
dealing with the world anti-communist
league will
flush out your understanding of the
china lobby all right so i'll start that
again
meanwhile in the united states meaning
meanwhile 1948
kmt agents helped establish a powerful
china lobby
and collaborated with friends and u.s
agencies to target
and in some cases drive from government
old foes of the former u.s
kmt thai lee alliance including those
inside the oss
okay so the china lobby is getting
together to drive the people opposed to
the drug smugglers
out of office a scholarly book in 1960
noted that quote the narcotics business
has been a factor in some activities
and permutations of the china lobby
unquote
thus challenging the official narcotics
bureau myth that kmt
dope in this country was quote communist
chinese unquote so again what we see in
this case
um not only the the the combining of the
uh the the reactionary or the right wing
or the extreme conservative factions in
in political circles with the
intelligence and in many cases the
actual
uh dope runners and warlords um to
to uh chase from government or slander
people who are opposed to these kinds of
policies
but on top of that we see again that uh
as as adolf hitler once put it that
impudent reversal of truth
in which uh the the pot calls the kettle
black and that is exactly what was going
on with the china lobby and their
allegations of communist chinese dope
flooding the american mainland
we're going to be taking a musical break
now when we come back we're going to
look at an expansion or a further
development
of the cooperation between the dope
dealing women tang
and us intelligence and we're going to
look at the role of the cia and the
kuomintang
in setting up the so-called golden
triangle which after the poppy fields in
turkey
began to decline due to pressure from
some of the western nations the golden
triangle became the primary
heroin production area in the entire
world for a long time
supplied the u s market the rise of the
golden triangle
was inextricably linked with the
kuomintang and its support from the cia
and we're going to look at that when we
come back
and we will be coming back but first
we're going to take a short break
stick with us get up stretch a little
bit and uh we'll be back in a few
minutes with more of radio free america
right here on kfjc radio free america
broadcast uh well it's actually about
the 24th radio free america but it's the
first broadcast
specifically devoted to drugs and the
american intelligence establishment
although as we have seen so far already
the american intelligence establishment
includes
uh largely large other factors in the
american political establishment
including the military
and other branches of the the
legislative and executive branches
and also it includes many foreign
intelligence branches which we're going
to be getting into as well
what we've just been talking about at
some length is a particular foreign
intelligence service
um the notorious goldman dang
intelligence service under general thai
lee
and as uh to put it in a nutshell we've
been talking about the fact that ty lee
in putting together his intelligence
force for chiang kai-shek
um in china uh co-opted the entire green
gang which was a gang of uh
terrorist kidnappers thieves and most
specifically important for our purpose
drug dealers
and took it over and then linked his
organization up with american
intelligence
okay now the cooperation between
the cia and coleman tang elements and
recall that kuomintang is
inextricably linked with dope dealing
syndicates which it used as an
anti-communist cadre in much the same
way that the oss and cia used this
the mafia and the union course the uh
the link up between us intelligence
and the kuomintang inextricably involved
in the dope traffic
as we're going to see now this pattern
has continued to operate has
i should say continued to operate
historically and was to result in the
development of the so-called golden
triangle area of southeast asia
as a primary heroin or opium growing
center the golden triangle generally
refers to an area of laos
thailand and burma which came to the
forefront of the narcotics trafficking
during the vietnam war
and the the traffic in southeast asia is
what we're going to be looking at right
now and the cia cuomintang cooperation
and promoting it
is front and center returning once again
to the politics of heroin in southeast
asia by alfred mccoy
while the work of french clandestine
services in indochina enabled the opium
trade to survive a government repression
campaign
some cia activities in burma helped
transform the sean states from a
relatively minor poppy cultivating area
into the largest opium growing region in
the world
the precipitous collapse of the
nationalist chinese kuomintang or kmt
government in 1949
convinced the truman administration that
it had to stem a quote the southward
flow of communism
unquote into southeast asia in 1950 the
defense department extended military aid
to the french in indochina
in that same year the cia began
regrouping those remnants of the
defeated kuomintang army in the burmese
shan states for a projected invasion of
southern china
although the kuomintang army was to fail
in its military operations
it succeeded in monopolizing and
expanding the sean state's opium trade
the kuomintang shipped bountiful
harvests to northern thailand where they
were sold to general
siryananda of the thai police a cia
client
the cia had promoted the foul cuomintang
partnership in order to provide a secure
rear area for the kuomintang
but this alliance soon became a critical
factor in the growth of southeast asia's
narcotics traffic
with cia support the kuomintang remained
in burma until 1961 when a burmese army
offensive drove them into laos in
thailand
by this time however the kuomintang had
already used their control over the
tribal populations to expand shan state
opium
production by almost a thousand percent
from less than 40 tons after world war
two to an estimated 300
to 400 tons by 1962.
from bases in northern thailand the
kuomintang have continued to send huge
mule caravans into the sean states to
bring out the opium harvest
today over 20 years after the cia first
began supporting komen tang troops in
the golden triangle region
these kuomintang caravans control almost
a third of the world's total illicit
opinion supply
and have a growing share of southeast
asia's thriving heroin business
all right continuing with the politics
of heroin in southeast asia
nationalist chinese stragglers began
crossing into burma in late 1949
and in january 1950 remnants of the 93rd
division 26th army
and general lee mee's eighth army
arrived in burma
five thousand of general lee mee's
troops who crossed into into
it crossed into indochina instead of
burma were quickly disarmed by the
french
and interned on fukuok island in the
gulf of thailand
until they were repatriated to taiwan in
june 1953.
by the way this general we're talking
about is l-i-m-i not to be confused with
ty lee who we were talking about earlier
good point however the burmese army was
less successful than the french
in dealing with the chinese by march
some fifteen hundred can uh kmt troops
had crossed the border and were
occupying territory between king tung
city
and tachilek in june the burmese army
commander for king tung state
demanded that the kmt either surrender
or leave burma immediately
when general lee me refused the burmese
army launched a drive from king tung
city and captured tachilek
in a matter of weeks two hundred of
limi's troops fled to laos and were
interned
but the remainder retreated to mong sat
about 40 miles west of tochilek and 15
miles from the thai border
since the burmese army had been tied
down for three years in central burma
battling four major rebellions its
kingdom contingent was too weak to
pursue
the kmt through the mountains to mong
sat
but it seemed only a matter of months
until the burmese troops would become
available
for the final assault on the weakened
kmt forces
at this point the cia entered the lists
on the side of the kmt
drastically altering the balance of
power the truman administration
ambivalent toward the conflict in
southeast asia since it took office in
1945 was shocked in action
by the sudden collapse of chiang
kai-shek's gomentang regime
all the government agencies scrambled to
devise policies
quote to block further communist
expansion in asia unquote
and in april 1950 the joint chiefs of
staff advised secretary of defense that
quote
resolution of the situation facing
southeast asia would be facilitated
if prompt and continuing measures were
undertaken to reduce the pressure from
communist china
in this connection the joint chiefs of
staff have noted the evidence
of renewed vitality and apparent
increased effectiveness of the chinese
nationalist
forces they went on to suggest the
implementation of quota program of
special covert operations
designed to interfere with communist
activities in southeast asia unquote
the exact details of the special covert
operations
planned for burma were not spelled out
in the joint chiefs of staff memo
or any of the other pentagon papers
because it was one of the most heavily
classified operations ever undertaken by
the cia
the u s ambassador to burma was not told
top ranking officials in the state
department were kept in the dark
and it was even hidden from the cia's
own deputy director for intelligence
from what can be gleaned from available
documents in the events themselves
it seems that the truman administration
feared that mao was bent on the conquest
of southeast asia
and would continually probe at china's
southern frontier
for an opening for his quote invading
hordes
although the truman administration was
confident that indochina could be held
against a frontal assault
there was concern that burma might be
the hole in the anti-communist dike
couldn't mao make an end run through
burma sweep across thailand and attack
indochina from the rear
the apparent solution was to arm the kmt
remnants in burma
and use them to make the burma china
borderlands from tibet to thailand
an impenetrable barrier the first signs
of direct cia
aid to the kmt appeared in early 1951
when burmese intelligence officers
reported that unmarked c-46 and c-47
transport aircraft
were making at least five parachute
drops a week to kmt forces in amongst
with its new supplies the kmt underwent
a period of vigorous expansion and
reorganization
training bases staffed with instructors
flown in from taiwan were constructed
near mung sat
kmt agents scoured the kokang and was
states along the burma china border
for scattered kmt survivors and general
limi's force
burgeoned to four thousand men
in april 1950 limi led the bulk of his
force up the salween river to mong mao
in the huawei states where they
established a base camp near the china
border
as more stragglers were rounded up a new
base camp was open at mung yang
soon unmarked c-47s were seen making air
drops in the area
when lee mee recruited 300 troops from
kokang state under the command of the
sabha's younger sister
olive yang more arms were again dropped
to the kmt camp
so we have the cia arming the komen tang
refugees in burma
ostensibly to go after the chinese
communist and to present a barrier
against a possible chinese uh communist
chinese invasion of southeast asia
well as we've seen that well as we know
from history that invasion never took
place
it's worth noting that the cia's aid to
the kuomintang forces in burma was
instrumental
in permitting the kuomintang forces
we've looked at kwomen's official
kuomintang involvement with uh the opium
trade in the past
earlier in the broadcast i should say
this cia aid
to the kuomintang forces in burma
permitted them to take over and expand
the opium trade the opium growing in the
sean states
a uh disputed uh area of burma
continuing
with the politics of heroin in southeast
asia with the burmese army still
preoccupied with insurgency in other
parts of burma
the kuomintang soon became the only
effective government in all the shan
states territories between the salween
river and the china border
kokang wa and kengtung states
these territories were also burma's
major opium producing region
and the shift in komintang tactics
allowed them to increase their control
of the region's opium traffic
the burmese government reported quote
the kuomintangs took over the control
and administration of circles and
village tracks circles by the way means
districts
they started opening up revenue
collection centers and local people were
being subjected to pay gate fees and
ferry fees and entering their occupied
area
customs duties were also leveled on all
commodities brought into their
territories for trade
the taxes were collected in kind as well
as money by means of threat
and coercion these kuomintang aggressors
forced the local inhabitants to comply
with their demands
the kuomintang occupation centralized
the marketing structure using hundreds
of petty opium traders who
combed the sean highlands the kuomintang
also required that every hilltribe
farmer pay an annual opium tax
one american missionary to the leihu
tribesmen of kentung state
reverend paul lewis recalls that the
kuomintang tax produced a dramatic rise
in the amount of opium grown in the
highland villages he visited
trump's had very little choice in the
matter and he can still remember
only too vividly the agony of the leihu
who were tortured by the kuomintang for
failure for failing to comply with the
regulations
moreover many chinese soldiers married
lehu tribes women
these marriages reinforced kuomintang
control over the highlands and made it
easier for them to secure opium
and recruits through their personal
contact in mountain villages
their powerful army and their control
over the opium growing regions
the kuomintang were in an ideal position
to force an expansion of the shan
state's opium production
when yunnan's illicit production began
to disappear in the early 1950s
almost all the kuomintang opium was sent
south to thailand
either by mule train or aircraft soon
after their arrival in burma the
kuomintang formed a mountain transport
unit
recruiting local mule drivers and their
animals since most of their munitions
and supplies were hauled over land from
thailand
the kuomintang mule caravans found it
convenient to haul opium on the outgoing
trip from mong sat
and soon developed a regular caravan
trade with thailand
burmese military sources claimed that
much of the kuomintang opium was flown
from hong sadin
unmarked c-47s flying to thailand and
taiwan
of course the implication here is that
those unmarked c-47s or cia planes
we're going to look at later in the
broadcast the role of air america a cia
air proprietary in flying opium
from laos into vietnam continuing here
with with the
mccoy's account in any case once the
kuomintang opium left mong sat it was
usually shipped to chiang mai where a
kuomintang colonel maintained a liaison
office with the nationalist chinese
consulate
and with local thai authorities posing
as ordinary chinese merchants the
colonel and his staff used raw opium to
pay for the for the munitions
food and clothing that arrived from
bangkok at the chiang mai rail head
once the material was paid for it was
this colonel's responsibility to forward
it to mong sat
usually the kuomintang dealt with the
commander of the thai police
general foul who shipped the opium from
chiang mai to bangkok for both local
consumption
and export while the three cia sponsored
invasions of yunnan at least represented
a feebly conceived anti-communist policy
the next move defied all logic with what
appeared to be
cia support the kuomintang began a
full-scale invasion of eastern burma
in late 1952 thousands of kuomintang
mercenaries forted the salween river
and began a well-orchestrated advance
the burmese government claimed that this
was the beginning of an attempt to
conquer the entire country
but in march of 1953 the burmese fielded
three crack brigades and quickly drove
them back across the southween
interestingly after a skirmish with the
komen tang at the juan salah ferry
burmese soldiers discovered the bodies
of three white men who bore no
identification
other than some personal letters with
washington and new york addresses
so here we not only have the cia aiding
the kuomintang and providing them with
the necessary muscle
to control and expand the burmese opium
trade
thereby carrying it through their
caravans into thailand as well where a
lot of it was marketed
but apparently in 1952 the cia actually
began aiding the kuomintang
in an operation against burma according
to the burmese with the aid of taking
over the entire country
and as we will see there was no lack of
knowledge of this as a matter of fact as
we'll see in the end of the next segment
as by 1952 articles were being printed
in the new york times detailing
the fact that these activities were
going on so there was no
there's no excuse of of ignorance on the
part of american officials
anyway continuing with a slightly later
section
in the politics of heroin in southeast
asia although forgotten by the
international press the gomandan
guerilla operations continued to create
problems for both the burmese and
chinese governments
when delegations from the union of burma
and the people's republic of china met
to resolve a border dispute in the
summer of 1960
they also concluded a secret agreement
for combined operations against the kmt
base at mong paliao
this base with a runway capable of
handling the largest transport aircraft
was defended by some ten thousand
gomentang troops
entrenched in an elaborate
fortifications complex
after weeks of heavy fighting five
thousand burmese troops and three full
people's liberation army divisions
totaling twenty thousand men
finally overwhelmed the fortress on
january twenty sixth
nineteen sixty one while many of their
hill tribe recruits fled into the
mountains
the crack kmt units recruited retreated
across the mekong river
into northwestern laos burmese officers
were outraged to discover american arms
of recent manufacture
and five tons of ammunition bearing
distinctive red white and blue labels
in rangoon ten thousand angry
demonstrators marched in front of the
u.s embassy
and burma sent a note of protest to the
united states saying that quote
large quantities of modern military
equipment mainly of american origin
have been captured by burmese forces
unquote state department officials in
washington
washington disclaimed any responsibility
for the arms
and promised appropriate action against
taiwan if investigations showed that its
military aid shipments have been
diverted to burma
another round of airlifts to taiwan
began
on april 5th taiwan announced the end of
the flights
declaring that 4 200 soldiers had been
repatriated
six days later taiwan joined the state
department in disavowing any
responsibility
for the six thousand remaining troops
however within months
the c i a began hiring these disowned
cuomintang remnants
as mercenaries for its secret operations
in northwestern laos
let me read that again to you within
months the cia began
hiring these disowned kuomintang
remnants as mercenaries for its secret
operations in northwestern laos
at first glance the history of the
komentang's involvement in the burmese
opium trade
seems to be just another case of a cia
client taking advantage of the agency's
political protection
to enrich itself from the narcotics
trade but upon closer examination the
cia appears to be much more seriously
compromised in this affair
the cia fostered the growth of the
yunnan province
anti-communist national salvation army
in the borderlands of northeastern burma
a potentially rich opium growing region
there is no question of cia ignorance or
naivete
for as early as 1952 the new york times
and other major american newspapers
published detailed accounts of the kmt
role in the narcotics trade
but most disturbing of all is the
coincidence that the komentang's bangkok
connection
the commander of the thai police general
foul phao
was the cia's man in thailand still more
about general phil appears in mccoy's
book
continuing there can be little doubt
that the cia support was an invaluable
asset to general foul in managing the
opium traffic
the agency supplied the aircraft motor
vehicles and naval vessels that gave
fowl the logistic capability to move
opium from the poppy fields to the sea
lanes
and his role in protecting sea supply
shipments to the kuomintang no doubt
gave fowl a considerable advantage in
establishing himself as the exclusive
exporter of kuomintang opium by the way
sea supply was a cia proprietary
set up by a cia agent named paul
hellewell who was operating
in conjunction with cuomin tank you may
want to start this over again because i
want to mention broadcasting from
foothill college this is kfjc
los altos hills right now uh recapping
what we just looked at we looked at how
basically
the military muscle provided to the
chromium tank exiles in burma by
cia enabled them to take over the
burmese opium trade and expanded
this opium trade was used to provide
them with the necessary income to
support their
mercenary army in burma this mercenary
army not only operated against communist
china which it was supposed to
it also began operating against burma in
an attempt to take over burma entirely
and apparently did so with cia support
and eventually of course this cia uh
strengthened kuomintang group in burma
began
shipping shipping opium on a regular
basis to thailand
and their primary contact there was the
cia's man in thailand general
phil now uh resuming once again this
section of the politics of heroin in
southeast asia
there can be little doubt that the cia
support was an invaluable asset to
general fow in managing the opium
traffic
the agency supplied the aircraft motor
vehicles and naval vessels that gave
fowl the logistic capability to move
opium from the poppy fields to the sea
lanes
and his role in protecting sea supply's
shipments to the coal mintang
no doubt gave fowler considerable
advantage in establishing himself as the
exclusive exporter of kuomintang opium
and recall against sea supply a cia
proprietary
resuming the narrative given its even
greater involvement in the komintang's
sean states opium commerce
how do we evaluate the cia's role in the
evolution of large-scale opium
trafficking in the burma thailand region
under the kennedy administration
presidential adviser walt w rostow
popularized a doctrine of economic
development
that preached that a stagnant
underdeveloped economy could be jarred
into a period of rapid growth
an economic takeoff unquote by a massive
injection of foreign aid and capital
which could then be withdrawn as the
economy coasted into a period of
self-sustained growth
cia's support for foul and the
kuomintang seems to have sparked such a
take-off unquote in the burma thailand
opium trade during the 1950s
modern aircraft replaced mules naval
vessels replaced sampans
and well-trained military organizations
expropriated the traffic from bands of
illiterate mountain traders
never before had the shawn states
encountered smugglers with the
discipline
technology and ruthlessness of the
kuomintang under general fowl's
leadership
thailand had changed from a change from
an opium consuming nation
to the world's most important opium
distribution center
the golden triangles opium production
approached its present scale
burma's total harvest had increased from
less than 40 tons just before world war
ii
to 300 to 400 tons in 1962
with thailand's expanded at an even
greater rate from seven tons
to over 100 tons in a 1970 report the
u.s bureau of narcotics concluded quote
by the end of the 1950s burma laos and
thailand together had become a massive
producer
and the source of more than half the
world's present illicit supply of
hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand
tons annually
moreover with this increase in output
the region of the far east and southeast
asia quickly became self-sufficient in
opium
but was this increase in opium
production the result of a conscious
decision by the cia to support
its allies foul and the kuomintang
through the narcotics traffic
was this the cia's operation x
interrupting we'll look at operation x
presently there can be no doubt that the
cia knew its allies were heavily
involved in the traffic
headlines made it known throughout
headlines made it known to the whole
world
and foul was responsible for thailand
center by the un's commission on
narcotic drugs
certainly the cia did nothing to halt
the trade or to prevent its aid from
being abused
but whether the cia actively organized
the traffic is something only the agency
itself can answer
in any case by the early 1960s the
golden triangle had become the largest
single opium growing region in the world
a vast reservoir able to supply
america's lucrative markets should any
difficulties arise in the mediterranean
heroin complex
the golden triangle had surplus opium it
had well protected discipline syndicates
with the right set of circumstances it
could easily become a major
america's major heroin supplier and
those circumstances
were soon to develop so again we've
taken a look at uh
the role of the cia in promoting the
kuomintang's
exile armies in the golden triangle in
burma laos and thailand
in promoting the in uh raising
the golden triangle into one of the
major opium production centers in the
entire world
as mccoy indicates in that section it's
unclear whether this was a result of
conscious cia policy although
in light of events that we're going to
be covering in future broadcasts that's
a possibility that can't be ruled out
the point is that so far we've taken a
look at cia
anti-communist counter insurgency
programs and cooperative programs with
organized crime syndicates in
sicily corsica and in china and
we've looked at how these resulted in
the dominant post-war
opium production centers in heroin
importing uh
networks we've looked at how the
sicilian mafia was restored to power and
in return
the and in turn sicilian mafia
cooperates with corsica and syndica
which
also gets its net corsican syndicate
which gets its necessary muscle also
from cia
that becomes the french connection we
then look at that we then took a look
at how the kuomintang began working with
the uh with u.s intelligence
coleman tang in turn relying heavily on
a dopes and a dope syndicate run by two
yui shang
and tai li this komen tang us
intelligence relationship continues
with the komentan komentang exile army
in burma receiving heavy cia support
using that increased muscle to not only
control the sean state's opium traffic
but to expand it greatly and to turn
that region
into one of the dominant opium producing
regions in the world and as we've seen
the kuomintang forces in burma work very
closely and therefore their traffic is
moved
by general fowl of thailand the cia's
man in thailand
now we talked earlier in the broadcast
about how
heroin and or illicit narcotics in
general
become a political tool in in the way
that they can supply
money for clandestine operations
we're going to look now at how heroin
became one of the major factors
in vietnam even predating the american
presence in vietnam
and how the idea of heroin as a major
uh gain of political
and actual economic capital came to be
reading again from alfred mccoy's book
the politics of heroin etc etc
they're talking again about vietnam the
french suffered through several years of
frustrating stalemate
before realizing that their application
of classical textbook precepts
was losing the war um by the way just
mentioning
this is the war taking place after world
war ii in vietnam where the french
uh the the vietnamese who again had
fought as uh as resistance troops to the
japanese fully expected to be granted
their independence and instead
uh due to some deals cut between uh
within the the groups of the allies
uh most notably between the french and
english in the united states the french
were handed back their colonial
possession of vietnam but as the french
were to find out
things had changed and would never be
the same again
uh so the french suffered through this
several years of frustrating stalemate
before realizing their application of
textbook precepts was losing the war
but they slowly developed a new strategy
of counter guerrilla or counter
insurgency warfare
by 1950 to 1951 younger innovative
french officers had abandoned the
conventional war precepts that
essentially visualized indochina
as a depopulated staging ground for
fortified lines
massive sweeps and flanking maneuvers
instead indochina became a vast
chessboard where hill tribes
bandits and religious minorities could
be used as pawns
to hold certain territories and pre
prevent viet min
infiltration uh the viet minh were the
or the precursors to
what we knew as the viet cong the french
concluded formal alliances
with a number of these ethnic or
religious factions and supplied them
with arms and money to keep the vietnam
out of their
area the french hope was to atomize the
viet minh's mobilized unified mass
into a mosaic of autonomous thiefs
hostile to the revolutionary movement
were the most important apostles of this
new military doctrine
captain savani secured portions of
cochin china
comprising saigon and the mekong delta
by rallying
river pirates catholics and messianic
religious cults to the french side
along the spine of the anamite mountains
from the central highlands to the china
border
major tranquilier recruited an
incredible variety of hill tribes
by 1954 more than forty thousand tribal
mercenaries were busy ambushing
vietnam's supply lines
safeguarding territory and providing
intelligence
other french officers organized catholic
militia from parishes in the tonkin
delta
nung pirates on the tonkin gulf and a
catholic militia in huey
although the french euphemistically
referred to these local troops as quote
supplementary forces
and attempted to legitimize their
leaders with ranks commissions and
military decorations
they were little more than mercenaries
and very greedy
very expensive mercenaries at that
to ensure the loyalty of the bin zion
river pirates
who guarded saigon the french allowed
them to organize a variety of lucrative
criminal enterprises
and paid them an annual stipend of
eighty five thousand dollars as well
tranquilier may have had forty thousand
hill tribe guerrillas under his command
by 1954
but he also had to pay dearly for their
services he needed an initial outlay of
fifteen thousand dollars for basic
training arms and bonuses to set up each
mercenary unit of 150 men
it is no exaggeration to say that the
success of savanni's and tankier's work
depended almost entirely on adequate
financing
if they were well funded they could
expand their programs almost
indefinitely
but without capital they could not even
begin
but the counter insurgency efforts were
continually plagued by a lack of money
the war was tremendously unpopular in
france and the french national assembly
reduced its outlay to barely enough for
the regular military units
leaving almost nothing for extras such
as paramilitary or intelligence work
moreover the high command itself never
really approved of the younger
generation's unconventional approach
and were unwilling to divert scarce
funds from the regular units
tranquilier still complains that the
high command never understood what he
was trying to
do and says that they consistently
refused to provide sufficient funds for
his operations
the solution was operation x
a clandestine narcotics traffic so
secret that only high-ranking french and
vietnamese officials even knew of its
existence
the anti-opium drive that began in 1946
received scant support from the quote
indochina hands
customer customs officials by indochina
hands they mean the people who've been
there for a long time the old french
officials
customs officials continue to purchase
raw opium from the mayo
that's a tribe and the opium smoking
dens cosmetically renamed
detoxification clinics continued to sell
unlimited quantities of opium
however on september 3rd 1948 the french
high commissioner announced that each
smoker had to register with the
government
submit to a medical examination to
ascertain the degree of his addiction
and then be weaned of the habit by
having his dosage gradually reduced
statistically the program was a success
the customs service had bought 60 tons
of raw opium from the mayo and yao in
but in 1951 they purchased almost
nothing
the detoxification clinics quote unquote
were closed
and the hermetically sealed opium
packets each addict purchased from the
customs service
contained a constantly dwindling amount
of opium
but the opium trade remained essentially
unchanged
the only real differences were that the
government having abandoned opium as a
source of revenue
now faced serious budgetary problems and
the french intelligence community
having secretly taken over the opium
trade had all theirs
solved the opium monopoly had gone
underground to become
operation x we're going to look at more
of how operation x is financed
right operation x was supervised right
now and again the implication for this
is of course
that these very same tribes when the u.s
took over the french role in vietnam
these very same tribesmen
then became instrumental in the
so-called secret war
in laos the hmong or mayo tribesmen
became a key element of the cia
operation as well we're going to look at
that in just a second
continuing now with some more discussion
of operation x
during its peak years from 1951 to 1954
operation x was sanctioned down the
highest levels by colonel bellew
b-e-l-l-e-u-x for sdece and general rao
salon
for the expeditionary corps below them
major trunkier of macg
assured operation x a steady supply of
mayo opium
by ordering his liaison officers serving
with male commander toby lyfon
and thai federation leader deo van long
to buy opium at competitive price
among the various french para military
agencies the work of the mixed airborne
command
group macg was most inextricably
interwoven with the opium trade
and not only in order to finance
operations for its field officers in
laos and tonkin had soon realized that
unless they provided a regular outlet
for the local opium production
the prosperity and loyalty of their hill
tribe allies would be undermined
once the opium was collected after the
annual spring harvest
trancare had the mountain gorillas fly
it to captain sound jacques
van gt near saigon with the action
service school trained hilltribe
mercenaries at a military base
there were no customs or police controls
to interfere with
or expose the illicit shipments here
from cap
san jacques the opium was trucked to 60
miles into saigon
and turned over to the benzoin bandits
who were there serving as the city's
local militia
and managing its opium traffic under the
supervision of captain antoine savanni
of the doosyann bureau
the bin zien by the way it's b i n h x u
y e n
the benzene operated two major opium
boiling plants in saigon
one near their headquarters at cholons y
bridge and the other near the national
assembly to transform the raw poppy sap
into a smokable form
the bandits distributed the prepared
opium to dens and retail shops
throughout saigon and cholon
some of which were owned by the bins yin
the others paid the gangsters a
substantial share of their profits for
protection
the bins yen divided its receipts with
tranquiares macg
and savanni's doozy bureau any surplus
opium the bins yen were unable to market
was sold to local chinese merchants for
export to hong kong
or else to the corsican criminal
syndicates in saigon for shipment to
marseille
macg deposited its portion in a secret
account
managed by the action service office in
saigon
when to be life on its
t-o-u-b-y-l-y-f-o-u-n-g
or any other mayo tribal leader needed
money he flew to saigon
and personally drew money out of the
quest noir or black
box so basically the macg the military
airborne command
group which was the uh sort of patchwork
quilt
of local tribesmen put together by major
trunk here and uh which served as a
mercenary army for the french in vietnam
was dependent in much the same way as
the cuomin tanks as cia supported forces
in burma were dependent
on the opium traffic in order to finance
their military operations
and again this operation x here
represented a taking over
in essence of the opium trade in
southeast asia or in vietnam
by french intelligence in order to
finance its mercenary army
chief of the mayo tradesman the male or
hmong tribesmen as they're known
i think they prefer to be known as the
hmong tribesmen the
male among tribesmen are opium farmers
and it was this opium crop which
financed
their military operations and this is a
pattern which was then to
reassert itself after the u.s assumed
the french role
in indochina talking a little bit about
the changeover
and again the united states first came
into vietnam uh
to help to try and bail the the uh the
french out of the siege at diane bianco
and found themselves growing
increasingly enmeshed
in the uh the political climate of
vietnam and to the uh
the doctrine of uh of uh facing off
against the
the communists the communists or
communism which was conceived of as
being a monolithic bloc
um wherever it might appear and as the
french began to pull out
the americans began to ease into their
place
reading some more from the politics of
heroin when the french expeditionary
corps began its rapid withdrawal from
indochina
in 1955 macg officers
remember that is the essentially the the
local mercenary troops put together by
the french
macg officers approached american
military personnel
and offered to turn over their entire
paramilitary apparatus
cia agent lucian conan was one of those
contacted
and he passed the word along to
washington but quote
dod department of defense responded that
they wanted nothing to do with any
french program
unquote and the offer was refused
but many in the agency regretted the
decision when the cia sent green berets
into laos and vietnam to organize hill
tribe guerrillas
several years later and in 1962 american
representatives visited trackier in
paris
and offered him a high position as an
advisor on mountain warfare
in indochina but fearing that the
americans would never give a french
officer sufficient authority to
accomplish anything
trackier refused so right away
although as they mentioned here that uh
that there were some
dislocation between the macg groups um
and uh and certain people in the
department of defense not wanting to
make those kinds of connections
as we will see um the the rest of the
the changeover was
was remarkably smooth in terms of the
the old networks being picked up
and part of the old networks as we know
uh was operation x which was the the
plan to use the heroin trade the heroin
trade that had been taken over by
french military intelligence to turn the
heroin trade into something that would
benefit the anti-communist war effort
and as we shall see
uh in fact the u.s government took the
same heroin trade over themselves
entrusting it to their own hand-picked
mercenaries and used it for basically
the same types of purposes
it should be noted here just perhaps in
passing that the old french colony of
indochina comprised what is today
vietnam laos and cambodia that was all
part of the same
colony so they were not separate
countries in those days
however of course after the defeat of
the french at the end being foo they did
become separate nations
now again in laos the cia then
picked up more or less where the french
and operation x left off they began
subsidizing the hmong or mayo tribesmen
as a secret army that in laos to
harass uh vietnamese supplies north
vietnamese supplies moving into what was
then known as south vietnam
of the american assumption of the french
operation x in essence or of the french
mercenary
opium army in laos mccoy writes as
follows
in laos cia clandestine intervention
produced changes and upheavals in the
narcotics traffic
when political infighting among the leo
elite and escalating war forced the
small corsican charter airlines out of
the opium business in 1965
the cia's airline air america began
flying male opium
out of the hills to long chin long
chiang
and vientiane cia cross-border
intelligence missions into china from
laos reaped an unexpected dividend in
when the sean rebel leader who organized
the forays for the agency began
financing the sean nationalist cause by
selling burmese opium to another cia
protege
the ocean general fumi nosovan
p-h-o-u-m-i
n-o-s-a-v-a-n the economic alliance
between general fumi and deshawn's
opened up a new trading pattern that
diverted increasingly significant
quantities of burmese opium from their
normal marketplace in bangkok
in the late 1960s u.s air force bombing
disrupted laotian opium production by
forcing the majority of the mayo opium
farmers to become refugees
however flourishing laotian heroin
laboratories which are the major
suppliers for the gi
mark gi market in vietnam simply
increased their imports of burmese opium
through already established trading
relationships
the importance of these cia clients in
the subsequent growth of the golden
triangles heroin trade was revealed
inadvertently by the agency itself when
it leaked a classified report on the
southeast asian opium traffic to the new
york times
the cia analysis identified 21 opium
refineries in the tri-border area where
burma
thailand and laos converge and reported
that seven were capable of producing 90
to 99
pure number four heroin
of these seven heroin refineries quote
the most important are located in the
areas around tochilik burma
ban huay sai and nem kyung in laos and
mae salang in thailand
although the cia did not bother to
mention it many of these refineries are
located in areas totally controlled by
paramilitary groups closely identified
with american military operations in the
golden triangle area
may salong is headquarters for the
nationalist chinese fifth army
which has been continuously involved in
cia counter
insurgency and intelligence operations
since nineteen fifty
according to a former cia operative who
worked in the area for a number of years
the heroin laboratory at nam kyung is
protected by major
chao la chaola commander of yao
mercenary troops for the cia and
northwestern laos
one of the heroin laboratories near ban
y say reportedly belongs to general
juani
ratikone r-a-t-t-i-k-o-n-e former
commander-in-chief of the royal laotian
army
the only army in the world except for
the u s army entirely financed by the u
s government
the heroin factories near tochelek are
operated by burmese paramilitary units
and sean rebel armies who control a
relatively small percentage of burma's
narcotics traffic
although a few of these sean groups have
any relation to the cia today
one of the most important chapters in
the history of the sean state's opium
trade involves a sean rebel army closely
allied with the cia
other sources have revealed the
existence of an important heroin
laboratory
operating in the vientiane region under
the protection of general juan
ratacone finally the u.s bureau of
narcotics has reported
the u.s bureau of narcotics has reported
that general vang pao
commander of the cia's secret army has
been operating a heroin refactory at
long tieng
headquarters for cia operations in
northern laos
so we see basically the same pattern
that we saw under the french operation x
holding firm when the cia assumes
stewardship of the
the hmong or mayo tribesmen they are
opium farmers in order to keep fighting
their opium has to be sold
and one of the most disturbing things
and we're going to be developing this a
little further
is how air america a cia air proprietary
flew the opium from laos into vietnam
we're going to be going into just why it
was being flown into vietnam and what it
was doing there
after we take a short break but it's
worth noting here that air america
a cia air proprietary very much by the
way in the news
right now um is was uh
flying this opium into laos and
incidentally air america
and again we're now talking october 16th
1986 air america is very much in the
news recently
because last week a an apparently cia
airplane
including a gentleman named eugene
haasenfuss was shot down in nicaragua
hossenfuss in addition to admitting he
worked for us intelligence
uh revealed that he flew for air america
in vietnam in the sixties
all right continuing and getting a
little more into air america and their
their co-option if there is such a word
of the uh the air traffic of of uh opium
coming out of the mayo
tribesmen's regions are also known as
the hmong hmong you've probably seen
that
um and reading more from mccoy's book
wartime conditions had increased mayo
dependence on poppy cultivation
and the lack of air transport created
serious economic problems for hill
fighters
for hilltribe opium farmers excuse me
since the cia was using the male
population to combat
pathet lao forces in the mountains of
northeastern laos
the pathet lauer the communist laotian
army
since the cia was using the male
population to combat
pathet lao forces in the mountains of
northeastern laos
the prosperity and well-being of this
tribe was a paramount importance to the
agency's success
by 1965 the cia had created a male army
of 30
000 men that guarded radar installations
vital to bombing north vietnam
rescued downed american pilots and
battled pathet lao guerrillas
without air transport for their opium
the mayo faced economic ruin
there was simply no form of air
transport available in northern laos
except the cia's charter airline air
america
and according to several sources air
america began
flying opium from mountain villages
north and east of the plain of jars
to general vang pao's headquarters at
long tien
air america was known to be flying male
opium as late as 1971.
mayo village leaders in the area west of
the plain of jars for example
claimed that their 1970 and 71 opium
harvests were bought up by vang powell's
officers
and flown to long ten on air america
uh-1h
huey helicopters this opium was probably
destined for heroin laboratories in long
tien
or vientiane and ultimately for gi
addicts
in vietnam the us embassy in vientiane
adopted an attitude of benign neglect
toward the opium traffic
when one american journalist wrote the
embassy complaining that laotian
officials were involved in the drug
trade
u.s ambassador g mcmurtry godly
responded in a letter dated december 2nd
1970 quote regarding your information
about opium traffic between laos and the
united states the purchase of opium in
southeast asia is certainly
less difficult than in other parts of
the world but i believe that the royal
laotian government takes its
responsibility seriously to prohibit
international opium traffic
however latest information available to
me indicated that all of southeast asia
produces only five percent of narcotics
which are unfortunately illegally
imported to great britain in the u.s
as you undoubtedly are already aware our
government is making
every effort to contain this traffic and
i believe the narcotics bureau in
washington dc can give you additional
information if you have some other
inquiries
but the latest information available to
ambassador godley should have indicated
that most of the heroin being used by
american gis in vietnam was coming from
laoshin laboratories
the exact location of laos most laos
flourishing laboratories was common
knowledge among even the most
junior u.s bureaucrats okay so here we
see um
basically the the the cia has now gone
from
a slightly more passive role or at least
clandestine more clandestine role in the
heroin traffic
to direct intercession the cia has begun
to fly
opium out of the hills of laos and hand
it over
to their puppet generals now when the
ambassador godly writes
to this american journalist
and says uh how does he put it
um our government is making every effort
to contain this traffic
uh he perhaps was either being uh
cynical and sarcastic or he was uh
telling more truth than he knew
for as a matter of fact the cia was
certainly doing its best to contain the
traffic
and had contained the traffic pretty
thoroughly since they had a monopoly
on the air transport of opium at that
point and bear in mind again folks while
we're talking about this
um several years after the fact these
things are still going on but in this
case most specifically many
of you out there either were in vietnam
had relatives in vietnam
sons fathers brothers cousins some of
them came back with heroin habits as a
matter of fact this is one of the things
that caused the jump
in heroin usage in the united states was
returning american soldiers
specifically the american addict
population tripled as a result of
vietnam
ultimately they had the opium traffic in
vietnam was being contained
in the veins of american gis we're going
to take a very short break and then
we're going to come back and we're going
to give you some of the uh background as
to just how
our troops wound up being addicted by
the very p the very uh
people they were fighting to support and
by the government who sent them there to
fight in the first place
we'll be right back don't go away we'll
return with more of radio free america
in just a moment on kfjc
and we're back for the home stretch
of tonight's radio free america this is
nemtech with dave emery in the studios
at kfjc
and we are just uh into the final 25
minutes or so
of tonight's broadcast uh the first of
at least
three and possibly four because as you
can see it's a massive story
on uh the collusion of international
intelligence
and the international drug trade and
right now we have just finished talking
about
a very important step when the cia began
uh stopped being just a clandestine
behind the scenes manipulator of the
drug traffic and the political gains
attached
there too and became for the first time
at least as far as we can tell
an active full-time participant using a
cia proprietary owned and operated
airline air america
to bring the opium down out of the lao
the laos hills the mayo tribesmen's
uh opium uh farms and down and
uh giving them to the troops of general
vang pao who was a essentially a cia
uh pawn i guess would be a nice way to
put it
all right a tool perhaps two old tools
whatever you know
arose by any other name or a poppy for
that matter that's right now perhaps the
most tragic aspect of the cia's active
involvement in the narcotics traffic in
southeast asia was the fact that
many of the victims of that traffic were
the very troops who had been sent there
in order to
support the government of south vietnam
as as uh
indicated in the in the passage that nip
read you just before the break
many many gis and as i'm sure a great
many of you are aware a great many gis
became addicted to heroin in vietnam and
their return to the united states after
their tour of duty
tripled the addict population of the
united states
as we've indicated uh or as we've seen
that heroin was coming was being grown
by cia allies
in laos was coming out of laos via the
cia and was being
uh transported in into south vietnam and
the main traffickers as we're going to
begin looking at in just a second
were key elements of the south
vietnamese government
looking at the air the heroin epidemic
among american gis in vietnam returning
once again to the politics of heroin in
south vietnam
in southeast asia by alfred mccoy the
sudden burst of heroin addiction among
gis in 1970 was the most important
development in southeast asia's
narcotics traffic since the region
attained self-sufficiency in opium
production in the late 1950s
by 1968 1968-69 the golden triangle
region was harvesting close to 1 000
tons of raw opium annually
exporting morphine base to european
heroin laboratories
and shipping substantial quantities of
narcotics to hong kong both for local
consumption
and re-export to the united states
although large amounts of chunky
low-grade number three heroin were being
produced in bangkok and the golden
triangle for the local market
there were no laboratories anywhere in
southeast asia capable of producing the
fine-grained eighty to ninety nine
percent pure number four heroin
however in late 1969 and early 1970
golden triangle laboratories added the
final dangerous ether precipitation
process and converted
converted to production of number four
heroin many of the master chemists who
supervised the conversion were chinese
brought in specially from hong kong
in a june 1971 report the cia said that
conversion from number three to number
four heroin production in the golden
triangle quote
appears to be due to the sudden increase
in demand by a large and relatively
affluent market in south vietnam
unquote by mid-april 1971 demand for
number four heroin both in vietnam and
the united states had increased so
quickly
that the wholesale price for a kilo
jumped to seven seventeen hundred and
eighty dollars
from twelve hundred and forty dollars
the previous september
once large quantities of heroin became
available to american gis in vietnam
heroin addiction spread like a plague
previously non-existent in south vietnam
suddenly number four heroin was
everywhere fourteen-year-old girls were
selling heroin at roadside stands on the
main highway from saigon to the u.s army
base at long bean
saigon street peddlers stuffed plastic
vials of 95 percent pure heroine
into the pockets of gi's as they
strolled through downtown saigon
and mamasans or vietnamese barracks made
started carrying a few vials to work for
sale to on-duty gis
with this kind of aggressive sales
campaign the results were predictable
in september of 1970 army medical
officers questioned three thousand one
hundred and three soldiers of the
american division and discovered that
eleven point nine percent had tried
heroin since they came to vietnam
and six point six percent were still
using it on a regular basis
in november a u.s engineering battalion
in the mekong delta reported that 14
of its troops were on heroin by mid-1971
u.s army medical officers were
estimating that about 10 to 15 percent
or 25 to 37 000 of the lower ranking
enlisted men serving in vietnam were
heroin users
as base after base was overrun by these
ant armies of heroin pushers with their
identical plastic vials
gis and officers alike started asking
themselves why this was happening
who was behind this heroin plague the
north vietnamese were frequently blamed
and while rumors started floating around
u.s installations about huge heroin
factories in hanoi
truck convoys rumbling down the ho chi
minh trail loaded with cases of plastic
vials
and heroin crazed north vietnamese
regulars making suicide charges up the
slopes of khe sanh with syringes stuck
in their arms
however the u.s army provost marshall
laid such rumors to rest in
a 1971 report which said in part quote
the opium growing areas of north vietnam
are concentrated in mountainous northern
provinces bordering china
cultivation is closely controlled by the
government and none of the crop is
believed to be channeled illicitly into
international markets much of it is
probably converted into morphine
and used for medical purposes instead
the provost marshal accused high-ranking
members of south vietnam
vietnam's government of being the top
zone unquote
in a four-tiered heroin fishing pushing
pyramid
zone one located at the top or apex of
the pyramid contains the financiers or
backers of the illicit drug traffic in
all its forms
the people comprising this group may be
high level influential political figures
government leaders or moneyed ethnic
chinese members of the criminal
syndicates now flourishing in the cholan
section sector of the city of saigon
the members comprising this group are
the powers behind the scenes who can
manipulate
foster protect and promote the illicit
traffic
in drugs and the again the point being
here that the american gis were being
addicted
in vietnam and as we're about to look at
now one of the dominant forces in
in that addiction was none other than
the elements of the very vietnamese
government those gi's were there to
protect
primarily those around nyen khao ki nyan
khao ki was president of the vietnamese
republic at one point
for a long time was vice president under
chu he was also
head of the vietnamese air force and in
that capacity was able to insert himself
right into the center of the narcotics
traffic
as we shall see also at this point uh
the american
military and political leaders in in
vietnam who were there instructing the
forces in vietnam began to realize that
they were having
we're going to have real difficulty
controlling the populace of south
vietnam as we have said
uh the many times and many other people
besides us have observed
uh south vietnam was not so much a
nation
as it was a group of people uh receiving
u.s assistance in order to sort of stay
in large groups and keep the north
vietnamese out
and even more importantly keep the viet
cong out who are largely south
vietnamese in other words the people who
also lived in south vietnam
and who happened to be opposed to the
government in saigon
this was becoming more and more an
untenable position for the us to support
a government that had
no popular support itself among its
people and more and more money
and more and more uh underworld activity
was needed to support this kind of
effort to keep the populace under
control
now it's worth noting that uh vietcong
activity in saigon was increasing it uh
dramatically in order to combat this
basically what the united states did was
to reinstall a security system that had
been largely operating under the french
with operation x
basically uh the very same criminal
syndicates that had figured prominently
in the french security service such as
the binsian river pirates that we talked
about
were repressed into service basically as
again an
anti-communist cadre the system that had
been put together before and which had
you know as far as it went instituted a
very effective security in saigon
against
the viet cong basically entailed
a an all-pervasive system of corruption
basically
criminal syndicates were given a free
hand to corrupt anybody and everybody
they could what they did was deliberate
literally establish a community of graf
whereby everybody
was corrupted everybody was in on the
take and in exchange for this they
provided information
and became in essence anti-communist
informants this was a
as an anti-communist tactic or at least
as an anti-terrorism tactic
was very effective however it basically
created literally
a criminal community in vietnam which in
saigon which embraced not only the top
officials but
just about everybody everybody literally
was on the take that's what made it so
effective so what you were what they
were really doing in effect
was criminalizing the entire society now
nian cao ki
again at one time president another time
vice president of the vietnamese
republic
also head of the air force in vietnam
and currently by the way living in the
united states and reportedly involved in
criminal activities including narcotics
trafficking in the united states
nyenkow ki and his assistant general yen
yak loan
oversaw this system and financing this
all-pervasive system of corruption and
intelligence
was you guessed it the opium traffic
reading from alfred mccoy's book
although he was enormously popular with
the air force key had neither an
independent political base
nor any claim to leadership of a genuine
mass movement when he took
office this was the office of premier at
the highest political office in south
vietnam
a relative newcomer to politics key was
hardly known outside elite circles
also key seemed to lack the money the
connections and the
capacity for intrigue necessary to build
up an effective ruling faction
and restore saigon's security but he
solved these problems in the traditional
vietnamese manner by choosing a power
broker
a quote heavy as machiavellian and
corrupt as bavienne or negote or no din
you
this man was general nayan nuk lawn
l-o-a-n lon was easily the the brightest
of the young air force officers
his career was marked by rapid
advancement and assignment to such
technically demanding jobs as commander
of the light observation group
and assistant commander of the tactical
operations center
lawn also had served as deputy commander
to key
an old classmate and friend in the
aftermath of the anti-gem coup
shortly after key took office he
appointed luann director of the military
security service
the mmss since mss was responsible for
anti-corruption investigations inside
the military
lawn was in an excellent position to
protect members of key's faction
several months later lone's power
increased significantly when he was also
appointed director of the central
intelligence organization
cio which was south vietnam cia without
being asked
to resign from the mss finally in april
premier key announced the general lawn
had been appointed to an additional post
director general of the national police
only after lawn had consolidated his
position and hand-picked his successors
did he quote
stepped down as director of the mss and
cio
not even under jim had one man
controlled so many political police and
intelligence agencies
in the appointment of lawn uh to all
three posts the interests of key and the
americans coincided
while premier key was using lawn to
build a political machine
a political machine the u.s mission was
happy to see a strong man take command
of quote
saigon's police and intelligence
communities unquote
to drive the nlf out of the capital
lieutenant colonel lucian conan
says that lon's lawn was given
wholehearted u.s support because
quote we wanted effective security in
saigon above all
else and lawn could provide that
security
lawn's activities were placed beyond
reproach and the whole three-tiered us
advisory structure at the district
province and national level
was placed at his disposal
the liberal naivete that had marked the
kennedy diplomats in the last few months
of gem's regime was decidedly absent
gone were the qualms about quote police
state tactics and daydreams that saigon
could be secure
and politics quote stabilized without
using funds available from the control
of saigon's lucrative rackets
when the with the encouragement of key
and the tacit support of the u.s
mission lon whom the americans called
laughing larry because he frequently
burst into a high-pitched giggle
revived the bin zoyin formula for using
systematic corruption to combat urban
guerrilla warfare
rather than purging the police and
intelligence bureaus lawn forged an
alliance with a specialist who had been
running these agencies for the last 10
to 15 years
according to lieutenant colonel conan
quote the same professionals who
organized corruption for gm
and knew were still in charge of police
and intelligence
juan simply passed the word among these
guys and put the old system back
together
again unquote under lawns direction
saigon security improved markedly with
the quote door-to-door surveillance
network perfected by dr
tujen back in action police were soon
swamped with information a u.s embassy
official charles sweet
who was then engaged in urban
pacification work recalls that in 1965
the nls was at
nlf excuse me was actually holding
daytime rallies in the 6th 7th and 8th
districts of cholon
and terrorist incidents were running
over 40 a month in district 8 alone
lawn's methods were so effective however
that from october 1966 until january
there was not a single terrorist
incident in district 8.
in january 1968 correspondent robert
chaplin reported that lawn
quote has done what is generally
regarded as a good job of tracking down
communist terrorists in saigon unquote
putting the old system back together
again of course meant reviving
large-scale corruption to finance the
cash rewards
paid to these part-time agents whenever
they delivered information
lawn and the police intelligence
professionals systematized the
corruption
regulating how much each particular
agency would collect
how much each officer would skim off for
his personal use
and what percentage would be turned over
to key's political machine
excessive individual corruption was
rooted out and saigon cholons vice
rackets
protection rackets and payoffs were
strictly controlled
after several years of watching lawn
system in action
charles sweet feels that there were four
major sources of
of graft in south vietnam one sale of
government jobs by generals or their
wives two
administrative corruption graft
kickbacks bribes etc
three military corruption theft of goods
and payroll frauds
and four the opium traffic and out of
the four
suite has concluded that the opium
traffic was undeniably the most
important source of illicit revenue
now we looked at how american gis were
being addicted to heroin being flown in
by the cia via air america grown in laos
by the cia's so-called secret
hmong or mayo army and basically that
the dominant traffickers
in south vietnam at whose behest all of
this was being done of course it was
being used to finance the arms and
fighting capacity of the hmong
but the people involved in turning this
heroin traffic around
in vietnam were the basically the group
of vietnamese officials
and soldiers and flyers around yen
county and this was the dominant
individual responsible for getting all
these gis addicted
continuing and again nyan khao ki the
dominant person
involved in the heroin traffic or the
opium traffic from laos to vietnam and
consequently winding up in the veins of
the gis
continuing with mccoy's account of south
vietnam's three major narcotics rings
the air transport wing loyal to air vice
marshall key must still be considered
the most professional
although key's apparatus lost control
over the internal distribution network
following his post-tech political
decline in 1968
his faction continues to manage much of
the narcotic smuggling between vietnam
and laos through the air force and its
relations with laotian traffickers
with over 10 years of experience it has
connections with the leo elite that the
other two factions cannot even hope to
equal
rather than buying heroin through a maze
of middlemen key's apparatus deals
directly with a heroin laboratory
operating somewhere in the vientiane
region
according to to a u.s police advisor
stationed in vientiane
this laboratory is supposed to be one of
the most active in laos
and is managed by a chinese entrepreneur
tim heng
heng is the link between one of laos
laos major opium merchants
general juan rata cohn former
commander-in-chief of the laotian army
and the air transport wing heroin ring
from the viewpoint of the narcotics
traffic who tim heng's most important
legitimate commercial venture is the
pepsi cola bottling factory on the
outskirts of vientiane
with prime minister suvannah fuma's son
panya as the official president
heng and two other chinese financiers
began construction in nineteen sixty
five and six
although the presence of the prime
minister's son at the head of the
company qualified the venture for
generous financial support from usaid
the u.s agency for international
development the plant has still not
bottled a single pepsi after five years
of stop start construction
the completed factory building has a
forlorn abandoned look about it
while pepsi's competitors are mystified
at the company's lackadaisical attitude
the u.s bureau of narcotics has an
answer to the riddle
bureau sources report that hang has been
using his pepsi operation as a cover for
purchases of chemicals vital to the
processing of heroin
such as ether and acetic anhydride and
for large financial transactions
once the heroin is processed and
packaged in large plastic envelopes
other experienced members of the key
apparatus take charge of arranging
shipment to south vietnam
mrs nien t lee t key's older sister last
name by the way t-h-i-l-y
key's elder sister had directed much of
the traffic from the sadon palace hotel
in pak say
while her brother was premier but in
she gave up her position as manager and
moved back to saigon
however sources in vientiane's
vietnamese community report that she and
her husband have traveled between saigon
pak say and vientiane at least once a
month since they returned to vietnam
mrs lee purchases purchases heroin
produced in hu tim heng's clandestine
laboratory
and has it shipped to pak say or phnom
penh where it is picked up by vietnamese
air force transports
in addition the u.s bureau of narcotics
believes that general lone's old
assistant
mai den may also be involved in this
operation
after general loan was wounded in may of
maiden was forced out of his position as
director of the cio's foreign
intelligence bureau
and he exiled himself to bangkok for two
years this wiley chameleon had
used his cio agents to weave a net of
drug contacts across the golden triangle
and the bureau of narcotics has reason
to believe he may still be using them
normally those air force officers
responsible for directing the flow of
narcotics to south vietnam
purchase the drugs and have them
delivered often by the laotian air force
to points and laos
particularly pak say or else across the
border in pleiku province south vietnam
or in phnom penh cambodia most observers
feel that the cambodian capital has
pre-empted placo's importance as a drop
point since the vietnamese air force
began daily sorties to phnom penh during
the 1970 cambodia invasion
in august of 1971 the new york times
reported that the director of vietnam
customs
said he believed that planes of the
south vietnamese air force were the
principal
carriers of heroin coming into south
vietnam unquote
while the director is a two appointee
and his remark may be politically
motivated
u.s customs adviser more objective
advisers more objective observers
have stated that the air force regularly
unloads large quantities of smuggled
narcotics at tonsino air base
here air vice marshal key reigns like a
feudal baron in his air-conditioned
palace
surrounded by only his most loyal
officers as one u.s air force adviser
put it quote
in order to get a job within shooting
distance of the vice presidential palace
a va vnaf officer has to be intensely
loyal
to key so summing up this passage that
we just finished reading
not only are the monk trisman the cia's
so-called secret army growing of the
uh opium in laos not only is cia's air
america flying it in
to south vietnam but the key traffickers
in vietnam and of course remember that
the key victims and addicts are american
gis
the key traffickers in vietnam are the
key elements of the government key there
is not man as a fund
specifically nyenkow key air vice
marshal head of the vietnamese air force
one-time president of the republic
for a long time vice president under
general q and it's worth noting that the
main refinery from which the key ring
is getting that's a great from which the
key narcotics organization
is getting its uh its heroin and its
opium is
being bottled at a but basically it's at
a plant which is ostensibly
a pepsi cola bottling plant it is not
actually a pepsi cola bottling plant it
is in it
is actually a heroin laboratory
nonetheless that heroin laboratory
again being used by the key by the key
narcotics
organization by the hmong tribes and by
cia to fly heroin
into south vietnam where it's going into
the veins of our gi's
that plant is being subsidized by the us
agency for international development
itself often uses a conduit for u.s
intelligence
and niptuk is going to give you a very
piece of interesting information about a
well-known american politician who
played a very important
role in getting that plant set up you
can tell us late in the show a very
piece of information interesting
very interesting information we'll try
that one again we both got it wrong a
very interesting piece of information
this is from the great heroin coup by
henry krueger just a short segment
in august 1971 the bureau of narcotics
and dangerous drugs announced the
location in southeast asia of 29
drug refineries 15 of them allegedly
producing heroin
among the largest was one in vientiane
laos which was camouflaged as a pepsi
cola plant
richard nixon representing pepsi's
interests in 1965
had promoted its construction though the
plant never
capped a bottle it continued to be
subsidized
by u.s aid for international development
so richard nixon who at the time of
among other things the kennedy
assassination was working
for the pepsi cola company uh it was the
one who promoted the
foundation of that plan in vientiane
which became the leading heroin refinery
in all of southeast asia never capped a
bottle of pepsi
the heroin as dave said went straight
into the arms of american gi's and yet
uh the american taxpayers supported it
through the usaid
and again the the main person
trafficking in that heroin which
was uh be going into the arms of the
gi's was nien kalki a key official of
the government
that those gi's were there to to support
in the first place
obviously a distasteful situation we're
going to conclude this particular radio
free america broadcast by
taking a look at something which in
essence will provide a bridge to future
programs namely
the evolution of the southeast asian
heroin uh
heroin traffic into a southeast asian
heroin production operation
into a major exporter of heroin to the
crime syndicates bringing it into the
united states not only is it being used
to uh is is it being used to supply the
habits of american gi's
it the via the southeast asian heroin
fair opium fields
eventually were to become a major factor
in supplying the domestic american
addicts habit by the way broadcasting
from foothill college this is kfjc los
altos hills
and remember now the the key
organization's role
that is ky organization's role in the
narcotics trafficking because apparently
the decision the the us authorities in
vietnam
particularly general edward lansdale one
of the prime architects of america's
military and political policy there
decided to overlook that the
role of the corsican syndicate in the
saigon heroin trafficking and in the
southeast asian role in general
the corsicans obviously vietnam was a
french
indochina was a french colony the
corsicans wound up there as well
and the the corsicans and the vietnamese
heroin traffickers the corsicans began
contracting
with the encounter to get uh vietnamese
heroin sent to their marseille
laboratories
american authorities decided to overlook
this connection and we're going to take
a look at santo trafficante
who made a trip to saigon and may very
well have been involved with getting
vietnamese heroin himself
at any rate this last passage is going
to serve as sort of a bridge to our next
broadcast
this is the concluding passage for this
program from alfred mccoy's politics of
heroin in southeast asia
it is particularly unfortunate that
general lansdale decided to arrange
quote
some kind of truce unquote with the
corsicans during the very period when
marseilles heroin laboratories were
probably beginning the changeover from
turkish
to southeast asian morphine base in a
mid 1971 interview
lieutenant colonel conan said that power
brokers and premier keys apparatus
contacted the leaders of saigon's
corsican underworld in 1965 and six
and agreed to let them start making
large drug shipments to europe in
exchange for a fixed percentage of the
profits
by october of 1969 these shipments have
become so important to marseille's
heroin laboratories
that according to coneen there was a
summit meeting of corsica and syndicate
bosses from around the world at saigon's
continental palace hotel
syndicate leaders from marseille bangkok
vientiane and phnom penh flew in for the
meeting
which discussed a wide range of
international rackets but probably
focused on reorganizing the narcotics
traffic
according to one well-informed us
diplomat in saigon the u.s embassy has a
reliable corsican informant who claims
that similar meetings were also held in
1968 and 1970 at the continental palace
most significantly american mafia boss
santo trafficante jr visited saigon in
and is believed to have contacted
corsican syndicate leaders there
vietnamese police officials report that
the current owner of the continental
palace
is philippe francini the heir of
matufrancini the reported organizer of
currency and opium smuggling rackets
between saigon and marseille during the
first indochina war
police officials also point out that
some of key's strongest supporters in
the air force
transport division commander colonel
fang fong tien
is close to many corsican gangsters and
has been implicated in the smuggling of
drugs between laos and vietnam
from 1965 to 1967 general lansdale
senior liaison office
worked closely with premier keys
administration and the general himself
was identified as one of the young
premier's stronger supporters among u.s
mission personnel
one could only wonder whether coneins
and lansdale's willingness to grant the
corsicans a
truce unquote and overlook their growing
involvement in the american heroine
traffic
might not have been motivated by
political considerations i.e
their fear of embarrassing premier key
all right so quick summation tonight we
realize uh
that with these archive broadcasts
you're listening to an awful lot of uh
strange names especially tonight's
broadcast with all the uh
italian and corsican and french and uh
uh sicilian and
now uh laotian and vietnamese and thai
names that's very complicated this is
the reason of course that we advocate
taping them in just a moment on
dave is going to tell you about uh where
you can get a tape if you were not able
to take this broadcast yourself
just to cap the the main high points
just so you can go go
away with this clear uh we talked about
you probably should call them the most
significant
the most impressive yeah that's right
we're going to stay away from this like
it's like talking about the key ring
yeah we're going to stay away from key
for the rest of the day um
capping the most significant points off
and uh
what started as originally a marriage of
convenience between american
intelligence and the american military
and uh certain uh underworld
organizations namely the uh
the corsican union course underworld
gang and of course the sicilian mafia
um after becoming originally a marriage
of convenience for political purposes so
that these groups could be used to
suppress
labor and leftist political
organizations in europe at the end of
world war ii
before very long uh the uh intelligence
forces of
france and the united states found out
how very valuable
uh the opium traffic that these
underworld gangs were involved in
could be and how uh very lucrative they
could be in terms of
being able to use the money to supply
political forces
of course also the same thing happened
in uh china where
chiang kai-shek's uh intelligence
operation was based almost entirely upon
uh
upon drug dealing gangs and later when
the united states began to have liaison
directly with chiang kai-shek's
intelligence chief that liaison was in
fact right through
the same network and operations so later
on when france and then after them the
united states made southeast asia
the focus of much of their policy for
asia and stopping communism
uh the combination of these things the
french connections into the opium
traffic
and of course the profound involvement
of chiang kai-shek's
uh chinese uh refugees the kmt the
komentang
uh meant that the united states would
become more and more involved with the
heroin traffic and eventually
by the late 1950s and the mid 1960s the
united states was actively involved to
the extent of having a cia proprietary
airline air america actually
flying laosh and opium down from the
hills to the flatlands
and opium that later wound up being
refined in
a pepsi cola bottling plant that was uh
open with the help of richard nixon
and subsidized by the united states aid
for international development
heroin that eventually wound up going
into the arms and veins of united states
gis and coming back to the united states
in the biggest heroin boom
this country has ever seen courteous of
the courtesy of the people who we were
there to defend in the first place
absolutely and so now we're going to be
looking in the next few broadcasts at
some of the ways that heroin
and cocaine and other drugs have become
an intimate part of our intelligence
establishments uh political agenda
now if for some reason you were unable
to take this broadcast and i think
you'll
agree that it's a difficult program to
simply try and assimilate by through
casual listening
all of our archive shows all at this
point 24
radio free america shows our four guns
of november programs and other
miscellaneous broadcasts
are available from a tape duplication
service the name of that service is
davcore
dav as victor kore they're located at
suite 1300
d as in davcore space parkway
three words just like it sounds space
parkway it's right down by the nasa ames
facility
that's in mountain view the zip code is
phone numbers area code 415-969-3030
right or phone to the attention of paul
once again davcore
suite 1300d space parkway mountain view
california 94043
area code 415-969-3030
and again neither nip nor myself nor
kfjc makes a sue
off of that we don't make any money off
of it this is strictly
literally fyi and for your convenience
as well
all right now stay tuned for radio data
which has graciously allowed us to run a
few minutes over that will be on until
two o'clock in the morning
and we will be back sunday with our
regular one step beyond broadcast from 8
to 11 and as soon as we have a date
and approximately four to five weeks
from now for our next radio free america
broadcast we will give you that
right uh don't forget by the way may
brussels world watchers international
sunday morning at nine
during the third hour of next one step
beyond we're going to be rebroadcasting
the may brussel tape that would normally
have been broadcast this evening all
right thank you for joining us this is
niptuck for dave emery saying goodnight
and be back with us next time for more
radio free america here on
kfjc